"It's the little details that make all the difference."
Here is this weeks giveaway; a mini notebook, inspired from our last trip to France. To win, simply comment on this post. Let us know what "little things" you try to incorporate into life that make the difference. It could be a note that you tuck into your husbands lunch, a special game that you play with your little ones, or a unique connection that you have with a friend.
We will be randomly selecting a winner; we ask that you please only comment once.
7 comments:
ah. i love the little things too. they DO make the difference.
i actually had this convo the other day with some friends... i like to do small little things for the people i care about. such as...knowing what kind of coffee they like and getting them one just because. or seeing something in the store (even if it isn't anything super amazing) and getting it for them cuz it reminds me of them or i think of them. or just randomly sending them a card cuz i love em. it may not seem like a big deal, but when someone is worth it, you do the "little things" for them.
love ya christa. and love your blog. so many cool things.
liz dolan
Little things are great.
I'm an RA in the dorms at my college, and am always trying to do little extra things for my residents, like slipping them notes, or candy, and always offering a big hug or cheerful smile, and of course a shoulder to cry on, or ear to listen with.
Whats great is when they start to offer those little things right back and to others. I think these little things are contagious.
Wow girls! How awesome!! Kristin, isn't it awesome that when you extend care towards others it opens their heart? I can think of so many girls who at pivotal points n my life came and spoke something that made a world of difference. Isn't that what it's all about??
When I was in high school I did a lot of baby-sitting. I had a couple kids in particular that never wanted to go to bed, so I made a game up. Told them that if they would get to bed that would give me time to create them some pictures and leave them a note or two. So I would spend the rest of the night drawing and writing and then hide them around the house. They would get up in the morning, each having a note telling them how many pictures they needed to find.
It worked beautifully! They loved it.
A year or so ago their mom e-mailed me, her daughter was baby-sitting now and wanted to let me know that she was doing the same thing with her charges. She just wanted me to know how much it meant to her kids and that they were carrying on the tradition.
The little things really do make a difference!
My boyfriend always leaves me a note with a chocolate attached in my lunches that he packs in the morning. It always brightens my day to see his handwritten love note and the chocolate helps too!
lensimpressions AT gmail DOT com
my favorite 'little thing' is praying with my kids before bedtime...i LOVE to hear whats on their hearts and how hilariously honest they are with God:)
If you love someone, or they have affected you in some important way, the most important thing is just to tell them, just tell them, it is usually something they need to hear. My favorite way is with a hand written letter, and I just pour out my heart like they were standing in front of me. I thanked one of my daughters teachers and she cried. I've written letters to my Gram-my idol, my Mom for her unconditional love, my aunt who I want to be like when I grow up, and my father-in-law who never said no when we asked for help. I write to my friends who encourage me and make my life fun. I write to my kids and tell them how beautiful, strong, and smart they are..and I'll text them during the day while they are at school just to tell them how proud I am and that I love them and can't wait till they get off the bus and get home!!!