Top 10 Must-Have iPhone Apps for Multimedia Junkies
Publisher: Steve Sprang
Price: $4.99
Whenever and wherever inspiration strikes you, Brushes can.
Publisher: Shazam Entertainment
Price: Free
You might have heard about this app before, but there's simply no substitute for Shazam. award-winning Shazam also lets you buy from the iTunes Store songs that it identifies, and it gives you a quick and easy way to share your findings with your friends.
Publisher: Brent Jensen
Price: $2.99
For anyone who rents DVDs, iPhlix offers.
Publisher: Jeffrey Grossman
Price: Free
Where is the nearest movie theater? And what are the showtimes? With Movies for iPhone you can find that information and more. In case mainstream movie critics aren't in sync with your tastes, this app also integrates with IMDB and Rotten Tomatoes for user reviews and ratings.
And if you can’t decide which movie you want to watch, Movies determines your location, shows trailers of all the latest releases, and grabs ticket info for most theaters. (I actually found a couple of great theaters very close to me that I never knew about, thanks to this app.) After you watch the movie, you can rate it and share your experience with friends via your Facebook account.
Publisher: Last.fm
Price: Free
Lots of people know--and have grown to love--Last.fm, which has over 5 million music tracks available to listen to for free online. The Last.fm mobile client lets for a spin. Pandora does a similar job, but the main difference lies in the music recommendation engine: Pandora uses the inherent qualities of the music while Last.fm is mainly a social recommender, as Steve Krause explains in depth on his blog.
Publisher: Sudobility
Price: $0.99
Let’s face it: The iPhone's camera is not even to close to being perfect, especially in low-light conditions. Luckily, the Camera Bag ($1.99), which can improve your photos by applying any of ten classic camera and film effects..
Publisher: Sling Media
Price: $29.99
Ever wanted to take the whole TV-viewing experience with you? If you own one of Sling Media’s recent place-shifting products, you can now enjoy TV shows on your iPhone, anywhere a Wi-Fi access point is available.
You can watch on your iPhone anything you can see on your TV at home, and you can control your cable or satellite set-top box and DVR, or even your Apple TV. Since the SlingPlayer Mobile app for iPhone uses only the Wi-Fi connection to display content, the picture quality is great.
Though this program is quite pricey, nothing else around comes close to the features and quality of a SlingBox device matched with the mobile app. You won’t have to miss watching your favorite baseball or football team ever again.
Publisher: Lexcycle
Price: Free
You might think that the iPhone’s smallish screen is unsuitable for reading books. But if you haven’t yet decided to invest in an Amazon Kindle, your iPhone can do the same job with the help of Stanza.
In addition to a selection of over 50,000 free e-book classics from the Gutenberg Project, Stanza gives you access to a paid bookstore that features, among other titles, books from the New York Times Best Seller list.
But Stanza sets itself apart from the Kindle iPhone app in its reading interface. In Stanza you can choose the font, text alignment, paragraph formatting, and line distance to improve your reading experience. It even has a night mode, in which the background is black and the text and images are white.
And since Stanza is free, there’s really no reason for you not to give this fine app a go..