Game Notes EDM vs BUF
Buffalo Sabres (Head Coach: Dan Bylsma) at Edmonton Oilers (Head Coach: Todd McLellan)
NHL Game #31, Rogers Place, 2016-10-16 05:00:00PM (GMT -0600)
Sabres 6-2
Referees: Tim Peel, Brad Watson
Linesmen: Ryan Gibbons, Devin Berg
Three Stars: Ryan O’Reilly; Brian Gionta; Leon Draisaitl
- OK, look, I know we’re all disgusted at a big loss to a badly injured bottom feeder like Buffalo. But it’s important not to get overly caught up in the post facto narrative your brain is going to create as it looks through the lens of that putrid score.
- The truth is that the Oilers had a sh*t ton of great chances, and whiffed on a bunch of them. And the few they didn’t whiff on were mostly stopped.
- The Sabres on the other hand had fewer and less dangerous chances, but seemingly scored on all of them (and by my count, scored on three that weren’t really chances at all!)
- Make no mistake, these were two world-class tire fires going at it, and the Oilers have a lot to clean up, just as they did after the Flames victories. But the Sabres were by far the larger and stinkier of the two tire fires. Rewatch the game if you don’t believe me (I’m doing that right now to confirm my post game comments, and yes, it hurts a lot).
- The truth is, we see this kind of thing regularly – goaltending extremes will pretty much always override whatever happens with the rest of the team. What I mean by that is that great goaltending will overcome a huge deficit in play, and bad goaltending will torch a big advantage in play. And the latter is what happened tonight.
- What’s that old saying? “Goaltending is 50% of the game – unless you don’t have it, in which case it’s 100%”. Yup.
- On a side note, the reffing was horrific, as it always is when Tim Peel is soiling the ice with his presence. But that’s not why the Oilers lost.
Game at a Glance
Leaderboard
- Milan Lucic, Benoit Pouliot each had 1 goal
- Leon Draisaitl blasted 6 shots on goal
- Leon Draisaitl was most active on the team with 8 shot attempts
- Leon Draisaitl was the faceoff champ at 70.0% (7-3)
- Patrick Maroon, Jesse Puljujarvi drove shot attempts most with on-ice 5v5 CF% of 75.0
- Anton Lander trailed the team in 5v5 on-ice shot attempts at 50.0% (4-4)
- Milan Lucic was the big hitter with
(click image to embiggen)
Forward Lines – Shots Taken
(click image to embiggen)
Player/Pair/Line – Head to Head – CF, DFF, TOI
(click any image to embiggen)
NHL Media Highlights
Click the link to play the associated highlight video
Okposo’s first goal with Sabres
Lucic’s first goal as an Oiler
Gionta’s tip-in goal
Lehner’s point-blank save
Gionta’s second goal of game
Pouliot buries the rebound
O’Reilly’s power-play goal
Talbot’s great glove save
Lehner’s strong kick save
O’Reilly’s goal from center ice
Moulson’s top-shelf goal
Advertisements
4 thoughts on “G3 2016-10-16 Ermagerd, wournded Burffalo r darngerous!”
In the third at 5 on 3 the point shot bounds off the boards and goes to six of net where Talbot pad stops it. This about the 6:50 mark.
Pretty sure that puck goes in. Even worse for Talbots night.
I wonder, are you able to get that clip? Talbots glove hides where the puck is and he slips it out.
Hmm, interesting. Let me take a look, I think I have a way to capture it as a clip if so
Yeah, I think I see what you mean around 7:00 left. it’s certainly possible it might have been over the line, but as you say, it looks like Talbot’s glove is covering it so can’t be called anyway. Of course, officials have disallowed an Oiler goal where it was visibly over the line and not covered, so I wouldn’t put it past them to call a covered puck a goal against!