Galveston.com LeBoeuf Homes,Boeuf Homes, Inc.
6023 Ave SNo. 315Galveston, TX 77551Phone: (409)744-0344
Since 1987, LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. has designed and built fine custom resort homes that are recognized as truly distinctive in design and quality.
Douglas LeBoeuf, owner, has established himself as someone that demands quality in all aspects of custom home designing and building. Douglas has assembled a team of highly experienced detailers that makes a custom home done by LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. truly custom.
LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. accepts the challenge of incorporating today's technology, materials, and workmanship in producing homes for the most discriminating homeowner.
LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. accepts the challenge of incorporating today's technology, materials, and workmanship in producing homes for the most discriminating homeowner.
LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. strives to produce a product that is unique to the individual client's needs and taste. Team work is combined with skill and talent to produce a product that will endure time, excel in quality, maintain value and beauty.
The application of this philosophy is developed and managed in a way that makes the product a rewarding and enjoyable experience for all involved.
LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. combines design and building services under one roof, working closely with clients during the design phase, much as an architect would. The built-up portfolio of the many years of projects are utilized to combine ideas with the client's ideas in producing a unique custom design that fits the clients dreams and budget.
In fact, keeping the design within the budget is a strength of our design/build firm. Throughout the entire design phase, the client is advised as to how decisions impact the final cost. Once the design and budget is established, the construction drawings are produced and with final approval of all parties, construction begins.
Throughout the development of construction the client is advised and assisted in all selections and details necessary to make each phase of the construction progress on a timely basis.
LeBoeuf Homes, Inc. takes pride in making resort ownership a pleasurable one for their clients, so service and maintenance become a priority that can extend beyond the normal warranty period. They realize their client's needs do not end upon completion of the home.
Hours of Operation Call ahead for hours and appointments.
Join our Newsletter
Categories
Advertise
Popular Pages
Media
Social Media
© Galveston.com & Company 1994 - 2015 | More information