Before discussing the plein air experience... "I" must digress for a moment to attend to a more important matter:
Happy Father's Day Dad!
My Dad has been gone now seven years... but his "Presence" remains strong in our Family and in my Soul in particular. My Father was my mentor... my counsellor and my my Friend."He" was a gifted musician... a pianist who proficiently played and enjoyed every form of music. He was awarded his seventy five year pin by the local Musician International Union of his peers for his lifetime contribution to music. But more than that... "He" left each of his Family with a lasting legacy of musical appreciation and accomplishment... that we all use in some form... and cherish.
So... Happy Father's Day Dad!
"We'll meet again... don't know where... don't know when
Some sunny day."
God bless and keep "You" and Mom!
Thought that I would leave you with some thoughts regarding the value of making the effort to work outdoors... before headin' off to have my Highland Fling!
My painting pal from Algonquin Park, David and Diane Kay visited us for a couple of days. David and I managed to "get out there" on two days and really found some exciting subjects to sink our teeth into. All sites were within ten minutes of home here in Hillsdale... so no time was wasted driving around. It was just a case of arriving ... setting up... and getting down to work. I had scouted the sites out beforehand because of the short duration of their stay.
We were challenged by threatening rain and bouts of gusty wind... but we persevered... skipped lunch and managed to get in four successful pieces. Because David and I work very quickly... we only spent two hour periods for three. For the final of three on the last day... we limited ourselves to a 45 minute window, due to the fact that David wanted to travel into Barrie to pick up necessary art supplies that aren't at all available in his neck-o-the-woods.
David usually leaves his work to finish back in the studio... but I prefer to reach a final stage of finish for my plein air sketches... otherwise... "I" usually work them to death... and "Shermanize" them with detail that reduces the spontaneity. My four works will simply receive titles... go to the frame... and the Gallery wall... "as is".
This painting experience really "revs my engines"... and prepares "Me" for the trip to Scotland... to the numerous fishing villages ... and new "Horizons" that "I" will see. "I" have chosen to work/sketch only in watercolour... another "Horizon" shift to make the juices flow.
See "You" in a week! Until then....
Good Painting to All!
Warmest regards,
Bruce