"How can I recover the deleted iPhone contacts from iTunes backup? I want a complete and simple solution to fix it. Urgently. Thanks." - Jennifer
As we know, iTunes allows to backup data from iPhone, as well as iPad and iPod. To backup your iPhone data with iTunes, you just need to install the latest version of iTunes on your computer > connect your iPhone with iTunes > choose the file your need to backup > choose devices > click Backup Now to start. The iTunes will automatically backup your iPhone data with ease. After that, you can restore your data from iTunes backup whenever you lost or accidently deleted your files from iPhone. However, it is not allows to extract data from iTunes backup file selectively. It means that you just can sync the whole iTunes backup instead of some types of data. If you need to extract deleted iPhone data with iTunes backup file selectively, you can ask the help of iPhone Data Recovery.
Recover Deleted iPhone Contacts from iTunes Backup File
iPhone Data Recovery is a comprehensive data recovery tool working well for all iOS devices. With this software you are fully capable of retrieving almost all the commonly used personal iPhone data and multimedia iPhone files on an iPhone, iPad, iPod touch.With the help of it, you could simply recover deleted contacts from iPhone with iTunes backup. Besides to contacts, it can used to restore several types of iOS data, including photos, text messages, videos, call logs, notes, calendars, apps and more. What’s else can this superb data recovery help for you? To recover deleted iOS data from iCloud backup file, to recover deleted iOS data from device directly without backup.
Free DownloadWin VersionFree DownloadMac Version
How to Recover Deleted iPhone Contacts Contacts from iTunes Backup
All data in the backup file will be extracted and displayed in categories of program. You are allowed to preview them one by one before recovery. Then you could selectively mark under "Contacts" file and click "Recover to Computer" to save it on your computer or if you want to import these contacts back to your iPhone, click the button "Recover to Device" after connecting your device to computer.
Free DownloadWin VersionFree DownloadMac Version