Second Manchester dump truck crash, same road, same day
Dashboard camera footage shows emergency responders and passersby clearing debris to free a trapped motorist after a crash. Alex N. Gecan
MANCHESTER - A dump truck plowed into a passenger car on Route 539, dumping the truck's load of stone and trapping the car's driver in place, police said.
Police got word of the crash just seven hours after another dump truck crashed on the same Whiting road, colliding with a box truck that had swerved into the wrong lane, police said.
Officers went to where Route 539 – also called Roosevelt City Road along that stretch – meets Harry Wright Boulevard minutes before 3:30 p.m., according to a prepared statement from police Capt. Todd Malland. They found a 2008 gray Nissan Altima pinned beneath a 2016 Kenworth three-axle dump truck on the northbound shoulder of Roosevelt City Road.
WHITING: Manchester cops discover bouquet of drugs, seize car
Both cars had been traveling south on Roosevelt City Road, police said. The Nissan was turning left onto Harry Wright Boulevard when the dump truck collided with the sedan's driver side.
"The impact caused both vehicles to leave the roadway and the subsequent collision with multiple signs and trees caused the dump truck to overturn onto the Nissan's roof and spill it's load," Malland said.
The cascade of stone and the collapsed roof of the sedan trapped 24-year-old Andrea Penna of Whiting in her driver's seat, Malland said. "Extensive extrication efforts were conducted and Penna was eventually rescued from her vehicle and transported to Community Medical Center for treatment of non-life threatening injuries."
MANCHESTER: Whiting man killed in motorcycle crash
Penna's passenger, 22-year-old Kaitlyn McCabe of Lakehurst, and the truck driver, 41-year-old Tayfun Obut of Browns Mills, also went to the same Toms River hospital, also for non-life threatening injuries, police said.
Township police are investigating, Malland said. Investigators, firefighters, medics and workers from the Ocean County Prosecutor's Office, Ocean County Sheriff's Office's Crime Scene Investigations Unit, Manchester and Whiting volunteer fire companies, Quality Medical Transport, Monmouth Ocean Hospital Corporation, township Department of Public Works and Ocean County Road Department responded to the crash.
WHITING: Teen escapes car fire after crash
"We would also wish to express our gratitude to the members of the New Jersey State Police, New Jersey Department of Corrections, and other motorists who had stopped to assist with the extrication process," Malland said.
The afternoon crash came on the heels of a morning collision that injured 36-year-old Kevin M. Howell of Westville.
Police said 48-year-old Pablo Cespedes of Passaic drove a Freightliner box truck across the center line into Howell's Mack three-axle dump truck. Howell said he had hurt his knees but declined medical treatment..