My friend Shannon picked me up and we headed over to Pei Wei to meet Chelf and her friend Maria. Maria brought her family, so we got to meet everyone. We had a great dinner - eating, talking, laughing at the kids (I mean, with them), and getting to know each other.
So, here's how the connections go...I met Shannon when I first moved to KS. AFTER we'd known each other for a bit, we realized that her dad (a minister) knows my FIL (also a minister) pretty well.
Fast forward a year, and I meet Chelf through our blogs. We start to comment and then email each other and get to know each other. We realize that she and her hubby went to the same college as The Colonel (and his 2 brothers). Recently we realized that she's even met my BIL, SIL, and FIL, and she's good friends with some of their good friends.
Chelf's friend Maria lives here, and goes to church with Shannon, and knows Shannon...so, the circle is complete.
After dinner, we sent Maria's family home, so we could head to Starbucks and just chat about girl stuff (and believe me, those girls only topics did come up!). We looked at pictures and continued to chat non-stop...until the pregnant one (that would be me) was so exhausted she couldn't stop yawning, and Shannon needed to go pick up her son.
It was a quick visit, but we had a blast, and we'll plan on doing it again the next time we're all in the same town.
Here's Chelf, me, Shannon, and Maria:
5 comments:
*tinkling music in background*
It's a small world af-ter aaalll...its a smal world af-ter aaalll
It's a small small world!
"Take another one, I think I blinked."
"Oh, that one flashed TWICE. I'm Blind!"
"I like the other picture better. This one makes me look (fill in flaw here)"
Make new friends, but keep the old. One is Silver and the other Gold. I have so many little songs running around in my head. Small, small world. Shrinking every day.
I had a great time, and got Chinese twice in two days. (probably my favorite style of food) Maria's girls continually surprise me with how much fun they are.
I had a safe trip back home, and then went on another adventure, our church's couples retreat. I will blog on all the fun soon.
Look at your cute belly! hee hee.
I know! Your belly is cute! Perfect little round baby in there! You all look like you had a blast.
Abbagirl, you'll have to join us next time, or you and I need to just make time for us to meet!