The OWLS members-only listserv is an email group used to communicate with fellow members on matters relevant to the OWLS mission to transform the practice of law and ensure justice and equality by advancing women and minorities in the legal profession. Members are encouraged to join the listserv and connect with colleagues on referrals, advice, and relevant information.
Contact the OWLS Office if you are an OWLS member and wish to join the listserv. If you recently renewed your membership, check your spam filter to see if your invitation to join the listserv is there. You must accept the listserv invitation to join in order to receive those emails. The list is not moderated*.
The listserv is in effect a group email. To post to the list, just put owls@simplelists.com in the “to” block of your email program; you must do so from the email that you are subscribed from. Keep in mind that in an effort to reduce spam, many law firms strip out attachments or block email entirely if it has nonstandard fonts, photographs or the like. People are most likely to receive your email if you keep it simple. Those who subscribe to the “daily digest” option do not receive attachments.
To switch to the “daily digest” delivery option, contact the OWLS office.
You will only be able to send email to the list from the address which you registered for that purpose with the OWLS office. From time to time, we sweep the list to delete addresses which do not appear in our member database, so please let us know when you want to change your listserv address.
LISTSERV ETIQUETTE
LAW-RELATED EMAILS: Announcements about OWLS and OWLS chapter events; job announcements; lawyer referral requests; law inquiries (be very general in your factual background statements – we have judges, and possibly your opposing counsel on this listserv.)
NON-LAW-RELATED EMAILS: Please label messages that do not fall into the above category as follows: Label [SPAM-LOCATION*] (*Location means geographic area) Any non-law related email, other than relevant discussions (see below) should have this label in the email subject line. SPAM emails must also include the geographic location so listserv members around the state can easily determine relevance to them.
[SPAM-POLITICAL] Any non-law related email that is political in nature.
[DISCUSSION] Any email that is intended to trigger a discussion among listmates. Please limit your discussions to topics relevant to OWLS’ mission: to transform the practice of law and ensure justice and equality by advancing women and minorities in the legal profession.
REPLYING TO MESSAGES: Please direct your reply ONLY to the person who sent the email so we don’t clutter email in-boxes with replies. If a message is labeled [DISCUSSION], you may respond to the listserv. Please make sure the [DISCUSSION] label is kept on the message title.
TONE: Please use a respectful, professional tone.
OUT OF OFFICE MESSAGE: If you create on Out of Office message, please program it so it does not go to the entire listserv.
IDENTIFY YOURSELF: If your name is unidentifiable through your email address, be sure to include it in the text of your email.
PLEASE NOTE: While we encourage a healthy and meaningful discussion on all legal issues concerning our membership, OWLS reminds the group that it cannot endorse or encourage the setting of rates for attorneys, due to antitrust considerations.
Before sharing details of a case, it would be useful to review this Oregon State Bar Ethics Opinion.
*MODERATED CONVERSATIONS: The listserv is not moderated. However, if a discussion breaks the guidelines noted above, the OWLS office may step in to temporarily moderate at their discretion. This means that posts will be deleted before they make it to your inbox, and without notification.
Questions? Contact admincoordinator@oregonwomenlawyers.org.