Distinctive Style & Superior Design
The Grandlok window is the ultimate in “beauty, efficiency and strength, designed to enhance your home's appearance while increasing its comfort level.” The beauty of the new soft curved welded sash design, equal lites of glass and the unique cove mold look of the welded master frame offers a more traditional wood window interior and exterior appearance. Energy efficiency, security and sound transmission performance are achieved by ¾” “Warm Edge” insulating glass, maximum weather stripping and precisely engineered interlocking vinyl window extrusions. The strength of the Grandlok window comes from heavy wall construction, fusion welded frame and sashes, interlocking meeting rail and a low profile one piece sloped sill. Finally the natural beauty of the maintenance free finish of Sunshield vinyl, which retains its sheen year after year.
Every Grandlok fully welded window is custom-sized to your specifications, designed and constructed to meet your needs with styles and options you choose. This assures you of a perfect fit without altering the architectural structure of your home. Quick and clean installation is performed by qualified professionals.
To back your investment your Grandlok window manufacturer stands behind every window with one of the best warranties in the industry. Quality materials, superb construction and expert installation give you a window that will last a lifetime. Ask for the best in replacement windows -–Grandlok welded windows – your assurance of satisfaction.
Grandlok welded windows are available in almost every size in a variety of styles and can be combined with casement windows for a seamless appearance. Select a traditional window or design a special look by combining with picture windows, casements, awnings, sliders, and the classic bay or bow. All the windows made of Sunshield vinyl are available in White, Desert Sand, Clay, and Earthbrown.
The Vinyl, The Spacer, The Glass
The VinylThe design of the window and the quality of the vinyl extrusion insures the beauty and performance of the finished product. The window systems of American WindowWhen selecting windows for your home you want to look for products that give you the quality and performance your home deserves. A good place to start is to look for windows that have Intercept insulated glass. Intercept is a patented “Warm Edge Technology” spacer system that features a unique one-piece, U-channel design that creates an effective thermal barrier. It, therefore, reduces conductive heat loss through the window. Intercept’s sealed; one-piece design makes it stronger and better at retaining insulating gas than conventional spacer designs. The Intercept keping out Star window program is a voluntary partnership between the US Department of Energy and participating window manufacturers. All of our windows using Solarban 60 Low-E are Energy Star.
See Limited Lifetime Transferable Replacement Window Warranty for complete details.
Options:
Window Styles:Choose from the Grandlok Double Hung, 2 Lite Slider, 3 Lite Slider, or Picture Window.
Grids:You may add many grid options to the Grandlok Replacement window. Choose from Colonial Standard, Contour, Brass, Prairie Style (in Stock Colors or Brass), Diamond Shape (in Stock Colors or Brass) as a few of the many options available in the grid options.
Glass:Clear glass is standard in all Grandlok Replacement windows. You may choose to upgrade the glass with options including Low-E glass, grey-tinted, bronze-tinted, obscure glass, tempered glass and argon gas-filled glass units.
Colors:The Grandlok Replacement windows are available in our standard stock colors of White, Sand, Clay, and Earthbrown.
AmeriColor - Color Select Program:The Grand aluminum screens are standard on the Grandlok Replacement windows. You may choose full screens for your windows as an additional option.
Mullions:The Grandlok Replacement windows can be mulled into twin units, triple units, and stacked units.