As if I haven’t been busy enough with client work and workshops, over the past few weeks I have been planning the details of a little trip down to Sonoma/Napa. I will be flying down to SF on Friday October 24th and driving up to Sonoma Valley to do photography for some private clients near Santa Rosa on Saturday the 25th at a small estate winery.
I will be in California for 7 days, mainly for some long-overdue R&R, but have set aside the entire weekend for client photography.
If you or someone you know lives in the area (SF, Sonoma, Napa, Greater San Francisco Bay area), and is interested in scheduling a session with me on the 25th or 26th of October, please send me an email and let me know. I am taking a *very* limited number of sessions while there so that I can have a Sonoma-in-the-fall-induced zen-like calm color every day that I am there.
**Please note that ALL sessions will be done in or near Santa Rosa, Sonoma or Napa.**
Oh, and lest you think you need to sell a kidney or something to work with me, this totally isn’t the case! 🙂
Every client whose dog I photograph will receive a super cool little gift that is only for my most special clients- something that I don’t release to the general public. Oooh, I can’t wait.
To forward this post to a friend, just click on the title which will place the post on it’s own page.
I am more excited about this trip than words can express and I can’t wait to see the resulting shots of dogs among the fall colored grapes and vines and beautiful rolling hills of Sonoma. Also SO looking forward to taking some time off and relaxing. I have been working hard on my business non-stop for years and it’s time for a little break. Sipping wine on a picnic blanket under a tree sounds like heaven to me. A good girlfriend is flying down from Seattle with me and we will be renting a convertible at the airport and driving up to the wine country. Cannot Wait!! You can bet I will be sharing photos here after I return.
Some images I have been using for inspiration:
10 thoughts on “Destination sessions Sonoma County CA October 25th + 26th, 2008”
Very jealous! Can’t wait to see your vineyard dogs. Enjoy!
oh i am so jealous…. you have no idea…. i cant even tell the boys… they’d be staked out at your house with their suitcases…. 😉
enjoy your vacation! i love CA!
Sonoma and the Napa valley~Let’s just say heaven! A friend and I ventured there years ago and I was taken away in the beauty. BTW~I just want to pluck those plump grapes right off that vine! Scrumptious. Enjoy your trip!
woohoo! you are coming to shoot sanger! you will adore her. i am very pleased to see you have owners in some of the shots below (of the very inspiring kaiya). and i am completely in AWE of the graffiti shots! amazing. i am so excited to meet you! you will love it here!
sarah (and sanger)
Oh man these are gonna be goooood! Looking forward to seeing your photos and hope you have a much deserved vacay!
hi jamie!
oh your week in ca sounds wonderful! i cannot wait to see some of the photos you take on your special trip!
🙂 melissa
Oh You’re coming to Cali! I’m jealous. I haven’t even been to the Napa Valley region. I cannot wait to see your photos!!
I’m also a little envious! My husband and I keep talking about making this kind of trip but we never find the time! Enjoy the trip…… I can’t wait to see the pics!
I am so jealous of your trip! I grew up south of San Francisco in Redwood City and I still have family down there. My brother lives in Sebastopol. The Santa Rosa area is just lovely this time of year with the vineyards and apple orchards. Thanks for the puggy love, I love the photos! I would love to help you with anything, fall, winter, spring…jsut send me a note! Thanks for sharing your work. Judy