Oscar rundown - Oh god, Billy Crystal is awful. Actually that opening montage was pretty funny. What was with Jennifer Lopez's dress? Aww I love Jessica Chastain, she is adorable. I hope she wins. No, Octavia Spencer. I really admire Christopher Plummer. What a fantastic speech. Cirque Du Solei was impressive. That Emma Stone/Ben Stiller sketch was actually quite good. Okay, getting tired of RDJ's doco now. Bret McKenzie is on stage. Angelina is presenting an award...and has a leg. Woody is absent. I would have liked to have seen Farhadi back on stage. Alexander Payne is always a class act. Spotlight is on Viola, but I'm looking at Chastain in the background. Hey, Jean Dujardin wins. Meryl. Ugh. Hazanavicius is back again. The Artist wins the biggie, and Dujardin is at the back playing with the dog.
The Artist wins five, Hugo wins five...and The Iron Lady wins two.
Best Picture: The Artist
After Hazanavicius won Best Director this was fairly inevitable, though Hugo had picked up a bunch of awards earlier in the night, which made us question whether it might cause an upset.
Best Director: Michel Hazanavicius for The Artist
Yeah. Before the night, and before Hugo's string of awards, this seemed like a sure bet. Not a surprise, but I half expected to hear Scorsese's name called.
Best Actor: Jean Dujardin for The Artist
Could have been Clooney. Could have been Pitt. Like at Cannes and at the SAG Awards, it is is Jean Dujardin.
Best Actress: Meryl Streep for The Iron Lady
Ugh. Meryl. Rooney got robbed.
Best Supporting Actor: Christopher Plummer for Beginners
This is a class act. Fantastic speech from Plummer.
Best Supporting Actress: Octavia Spencer for The Help
Standing ovation. She was very good. But I wanted to see Jessica Chastain give a speech.
Best Adapted Screenplay: Alexander Payne, Nat Faxon and Jim Rash for The Descendants
I had Moneyball, but this is a fantastic adaptation and not a surprise.
Best Original Screenplay: Woody Allen for Midnight in Paris
Woody wasn't even there. Another 'shocker'. I would have loved to have seen Farhadi on stage again.
Best Animated Film: Rango
Had to happen.
Best Documentary Feature: Undefeated
Though I haven't seen any of the nominees this still struck me as a surprise. I expected Paradise Lost 3: Purgatory to win this.
Best Foreign Language Film: A Separation
At this point in the night, I think this was the first actual deserving award.
Best Cinematography: Hugo
The first award of the night, and a big shocker. I figured it would go to Lubezki for The Tree of Life. It had to. Alternatively, I thought Schiffman. Richardson was a surprise, as beautiful as Hugo is.
Best Film Editing: The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo
Fantastic decision by the AMPAS. I called this quite a while back, but because of the likelihood of The Artist winning Best Picture, I figured it would pick up Editing. Baxter and Hall also won last year for The Social Network.
Best Original Score: The Artist
At this point, if Howard Shore won for Hugo, I was sure it was going to make a sweep. But Bource picked it up. One of the 11 I got right.
Best Original Song: The Muppets
Best Costume Design: The Artist
Best Art Direction: Hugo
Best Visual Effects: Hugo
*Shakes Head* Did they see Rise of the Planet of the Apes? This one is wrong.
Best Make-up: The Iron Lady
I was convinced Meryl wasn't going to win now because they had already honoured what made her performance so memorable.
Best Sound Mixing/Editing: Hugo
Best Live Action Short: The Shore
Best Animated Short: The Fantastic Flying Books of Mr. Morris Lessmore
Best Documentary Short Subject: Saving Face.
Well there we are. Another Oscar year over. The ceremony was classy (mostly) and Billy Crystal was as safe and conservative as they could get. Having said that he made a few poor taste stabs and that 'Guess what you're thinking' bit was just plain insulting. Poor Nick Nolte. Either he should have done a Gervais and went all out, or kept it clean and fun. Not no man's land. There were some pleasant surprises (Baxter/Hall), but mostly annoying ones (Tree of Life and Apes overlooked in cinematography and visual effects, and Streep). Getting used to being disappointed on Oscar Day. But, it marks an occasion every year, and though it was a less-than-stellar line-up this year, I'll be back again for more in 2013.
Emma Stone was the highlight for me. How can one person be so adorable and hilarious? Also Bret McKenzie winning! Loved hearing that Kiwi accent up there.
I like Emma Stone, and I thought she was great. She is a couple of months younger than me and is now a pretty big deal. Yeah, Bret has one of the best beards ever. So glad he got recognised for his work on The Muppets. Overall, it was a solid telecast. The set was cute - but Billy Crystal bugged me at times.
I liked Billy Crystal! He's marvelous. It was that shithead Justin Bieber that ruined the opening segment!
He was okay, I guess. I thought some of his stabs were in poor taste, though. His singing wasn't as strong as I have seen him in the past either. I actually laughed at that bit with Bieber. Odd.