1. SHIPPING
Shipping by Courier
Delivery of products is powered by courier companies that fulfill our requirements and have been selected by GRAFFITO ESHOP in order to be in the position to offer you high-quality services.
Deliveries are realized throughout the day, Monday to Friday, from 9:00 am to 17:00 pm.
For more information or clarifications regarding the order and delivery procedures, please feel free to contact us at graffitoshop@gmail.com.
2. DELIVERY COSTS
FREE STANDARD DELIVERY IN GREECE FOR ORDERS OVER 50€
FOR ORDERS UNDER 50€, THE DELIVERY COST FOR GREECE IS 3€
Prices are indicative and subject to change. You will be informed of the exact shipping cots when your order has been processed.
3. RETURNS
You are eligible to return your purchased products or to request an exchange or a full refund within 14 days from the day you received your order. All refunds can be made via bank transfers by providing the account holder’s name as the same one with the person who placed the order.
At all circumstances, the returned products must be in the same condition as they were delivered and received by the customer, in full parts and without any wear and tear. They must be in their original package and in excellent condition (without removed labels). Finally, the product must be accompanied by all necessary delivery documentation (i.e. Dispatch Note, Invoice etc.).
Delivery cost must be covered by the customer.
Returns and replacements of products are feasible under the following conditions:
You contact us directly at 210 3608936 or you can send us an e-mail at graffitoshop@gmail.com by stating the return reason.
Returns are active within 14 calendar days from the date you received it, according to the courier’s proof of delivery. None of the products can be returned after the 14 calendar days’ period has expired.
Only if the product hasn’t been used.
The product comes within its original packaging, along with all its labels (which must have not been removed) and has not any wear or tear. Returns of Clothes and Cosmetics are going to be accepted only under condition that they are unopened, with no signs of use and all tags and protection stickers attached.
Whenever possible, we suggest using the initial packaging.
The product is accompanied by all necessary documentation proving the transaction (Dispatch Note, Purchase Receipt etc.).
No product return is accepted if it doesn’t abide with the aforementioned conditions.
5. REFUND
In case you do not wish a replacement order, you are welcome to request a refund. Refunds are processed within 14 days since delivery in our warehouse, so all you need to do is contact us by telephone at 210 3608936 or email at graffitoshop@gmail.com.
All refunds are processed through the initial payment method (e.g. credit card, PayPal, etc.). In case you have selected the Cash On Delivery method, the refund is processed to a bank account through wire transfer. We will therefore need you to send us an email containing your bank name, IBAN and beneficiary full name.
For security reasons, GRAFFITO ESHOP requests that the beneficiary or co-beneficiary name of the bank account is be the same with the one registered in the billing address when placing your order.