Runners know that choosing the perfect shoe is never easy. Sometimes you fall in love with a brand and they discontinue your favorite style. Other times you just want to change up the pace. You’d like to invest in new tech to run faster or avoid nasty shin splints, but how do you know what each shoe is going to offer before you try it out. Enter Nike running shoes; the brand with a running shoe for every stride style and terrain type.
11 Nike Running Shoes You Need in Your Rotation
To make your shoe shopping experience easier, we tracked down Nike’s top running shoes and read countless online reviews from real customers (so you didn’t have to!). We found the best running shoes for each type of routine—from trail running to daily road running to marathons and more.
1. Nike Air Zoom Pegasus 35
Original price: $120 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Functioning well across a variety of run types—like speed training, half-marathons, 5K races, and paced-runs—this sneaker is ideal for the versatile runner. If you rarely stick to one type of race, the Nike Air Zoom Pegasus 35 might just be the shoe for you. Lightweight, comfortable, and stylish, it’s also incredibly pleasing to the eye—you’re sure to get compliments at the gym. Best worn for 5K races and daily running.
2. Nike Air Zoom Pegasus Turbo
Original price: $180 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Looking for a running shoe that’s easy to transition from your morning jog to brunch? The Nike Air Zoom Pegasus Turbo is known as one of Nike’s most interchangeable shoe. Performing well as a running shoe and lifestyle sneaker, you’re sure to enjoy the best of both worlds. It’s also packed with ZoomX foam, making it one of the comfiest Nike sneakers on the market. Designed with high-mileage runners in mind, this one is sure to last. Best worn for 5K races and daily running.
3. Nike Epic React Flyknit
Original price: $150 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Do you love following trends? In the case of running shoes, if everyone loves them—even those with different running styles and preferences—it’s for good reason. The Nike Epic React Flyknit is a favorite among the masses for its comfort level, durability, and weightlessness. Lace up a pair of Nike Epic React Flyknits and you’ll see why other runners love it, too. Best worn for sprints and up-tempo running.
4. Nike Legend React
Original price: $100 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Are you trying to enjoy your favorite hobby on a budget? Many runners are happy to find that the Nike Legend React is only $100 (at full price). Compared to similar running shoes—ones with similar technology and cushioning—the Nike Legend React sits in the center, cost-wise. Best worn for daily running and training.
5. Nike Air Zoom Winflo 5
Original price: $90 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Nike’s Air Zoom Winflo 5 is the perfect shoe for a new runner. If you’re not sure what type of runner you are, or what type of running you’ll be into, this is a great jumping off point. It’s a no-frills shoe, overall—however, it’s known for comfort and durability. According to Runner’s World, the Nike Air Zoon Winflo 5 is equipped with Cushlon foam and it held up for well over 100 miles of wear-testing. Best worn for beginning running.
6. Nike Air Zoom Vomero 14
Original price: $140 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
If you’re in search of a road running shoe that takes comfort to the next level, look no further. The Nike Air Zoom Vomero 14 is comfortable, durable, and designed to keep you moving. Strategically-engineered to support you with every step or stride, runners will get the most out of this shoe on the pavement. Best worn for jogging and longer runs.
7. Nike Air Zoom Wildhorse 4
Original price: $110 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Need a great trail running shoe? The Nike Air Zoom Wildhorse 4 provides ultimate support and protection for trail runs and outdoor adventures with a rugged mesh material up top. Designed to allow for adequate traction, while maintaining responsiveness, this sneakers is a great option if you are planning to run on a variety of terrain (i.e. some road running, some cross country running, and some trail running). Best worn for light trail running.
8. Nike Free RN Flyknit
Original price: $120 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Nike’s Free RN Flyknit sneakers is a must-have in any runner’s closet. Breathable and flexible, this shoe supports natural foot movement better than almost any running shoe on the market. If you’re a fan of “barefoot” running, this is the shoe to own. Not to mention, it’s incredibly attractive, available in a variety of colors, and easy to find on sale. Best worn for “barefoot” runs.
9. Nike Odyssey React Flyknit 2
Original price: $120 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
The Nike Odyssey React Flyknit 2 can replace your Nike Odyssey React sneakers as your go-to shoes for road running. Want to move quickly? No problem. These sneakers are lightweight and durable to ensure you beat times on shorter laps. Packed with just the right amount of cushion, they also provide a smooth ride for longer routes. Best worn for heavy road running.
10. Nike Renew Rival
Original price: $85 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Agreeable from the start, the Nike Renew Rival will fit in nicely to your running rotation. No need to allow for a breaking-in period here. Runners praise this sneaker for its breezy and dry running experience—thanks to the breathable upper mesh material. Best worn for daily jogging.
11. Nike Zoom Fly
Original price: $150 | Shop Men’s Shop Women’s
Looking for a lightweight shoe to improve your efficiency? With a sock-like fit, the Nike Zoom Fly won’t get in the way of your big goals. Responsive, yet cushioned in all the right places, this sneaker is ideal for runners who prefer marathon-length runs. Best worn for marathon runs.
Purcado: How To Save Money on The.
