Here are the latest thoughts posted by friends and family on Donald’s facebook page:
Donald. An elegant soul. Music, art, words, humor, friendship – you shared your thoughts and your kindness with equal, enormous generosity. I feel such a deep, deep sorrow. I miss you terribly. Comfort and condolences to all who knew and loved you–Lynn Robb
Brave, beautiful, funny, smart, open. I met Donald at Cal Arts in 1976, he was talking about art and science, Tesla(who?) and doing just weird wonderful stuff. He babysat my daughter Maura, everyone bonded with Donald. He made a difference–Marc Pally
So sorry to see you have to go ♥— Tina Sills
Donald, you’ve always been in my heart, continually, since I met you in high school. I can’t believe you are gone.— Dan Gunning
I’m shocked and dismayed. I have an email from Donald saying he’s under the weather (April 23rd) he’ll write soon about ideas for our next Corita extravaganza. I had barely scratched the surface in getting to know Donald’s huge array of gifts and talents, surprising stories and experiences — I am so grateful to have known him and to have shared the Corita connection, but I feel really cheated out of what looked like it was going to be a long and fulfilling friendship. I hope he and Corita are yukking it up right now, as irreverently as possible. I am so sorry for everyone’s loss, I wish we’d had more time. Love, Sasha –Sasha Carrera
The years I spent with Donald were as sublime as it gets. We adored each other in ways that I know I will never feel again. It was a long time ago, but that time is what still makes me open to the world, creative, giving, caring. Donald changed me into the man I am. I am not sure he knew that. But I certainly do. Thanks oh thanks my sweet sweet Donald…..–David Schweizer
One of the best things about this planet left when Donald passed… I am devastated and my family will be as well… God Bless, Carl… –John Egan
When I first met Donald I thought he was a student at Otis. Came to find out he was my teacher of art history and was thrilled to have such a with-it professor. I wish he were here to hear me say this. He was a great teacher and a lovely person. Donald, you will be missed –Barbie Insua
From as children then to and so far beyond, you one of the most enlivening persons I ever knew, and among the very most beneficial infulences in my life. I miss you, bless you, wish to be more like you, and thank you for living your life so true. — John A Brand Jr.
Donald, tell me it is a dream. None of it happened. I’ll see you soon at an opening, and you’ll say something funny and Carl will smile that loving smile and everyone will feel that the earth is in right orbit for just a moment. That is the sort of gift you have, of making it all right. there’s a whole lot of us folks who are not at all willing to accept this. May your next journey be as adventurous. You will be missed. –Rebecca Niederlander
Travel well and with love my friend, the terrestial plane has lost a truly special soul. — Laurel Beckman
Good to see all your faces and read your appreciations of DK. I don’t have much else to say. It’s is impossible for me to accept the fact that he is gone. xo,w — Weba Garretson
Donald, I am so very sad to hear of your passing. Much love is being sent your way. Rest in peace. — Pat Gomez
You were a very sweet, kind and sensitive soul and a fine artist. But gone too soon ! Enjoy the other side. — Jean-Pierre Boccara
You changed our lives forever, thinking of you always with love and gratitude. — Jane Cantillon
Oh Donald! You’ve left us too soon – your warm and loving presence will stay with us all until we too join with you on the other side. I’m heartbroken. — Aaron Paley
I am so sad to hear of Donald’s passing. He was a genuinely “good guy.” Always a pleasure to see him. I have crossed paths with him in so many places since the times at Cal Arts. Much love. —Robin Mitchell
Donald, wishing you love and comfort on your next journey skipping the light fantastic. One of my favorite memories is with you in your studio looking at your mini sculptures and perusing your sixties poster collections. You are loved and you are missed. xxox — Mason Jar
A beautiful man and a wonderful artist. I just know he’s already making trouble somewhere else! Much love. — Kristian Hoffman
This is heartbreaking. Donald recently popped back into our lives via his gallery installations at the State Farm office on Larchmont Blvd of all places. It was brilliant. I wondered why the walls were blank again. Thinking of you… — Sarah Folger
it’s so thrilling to feel the love for donald. i thought he was my private special friend, but you all know him too!
he would come to new mexico just to sit on the porch to watch lightening storms. i admire that, dedication to beauty.
hooray for donald, he is loved! he lives in all of us now, we are lucky.
In a presentation depicting the importance of Social Diversity Donald Krieger had a Luncheon for his Ethnic Studies Class at Fullerton College in 1974. The plates consisted of all green food. Our Instructor remarked to Donald and the class he was indeed a genius, a visionary. As his young peers this distinction was something we were all quite aware of, and will always be.
…the one who put me in the thick of the Post Avant-Garde! Donald – Stay Peaceful!
I received my first art/philosophy lesson from Donald when He was still living at home in Fullerton. He was constructing something large on the garage floor. It was being built to be dismantled, maybe to be destroyed. Why?My first lesson on inpermanance and an idea of conceptual art. Thank you, Donald.