What is local SEO? If you do a Google search for a specific type of business, such as a “burger joint” using a mobile device. You’ll find that the top search results will be of local burger places, right near where you’re located right this second. The results will include addresses, phone numbers, star ratings and maps for these local businesses.
That’s because they utilized local search engine optimization (SEO) to ensure that customers like them can find their brick and mortar locations quickly. This local SEO is referred to as Google’s Local Snack Pack.
5 Steps to Improving Your Local SEO in Just Hours
1. Claim Your Google My Business Page
Google allows brick and mortar businesses to claim their Google My Business page for absolutely free. You will enter your brand’s physical address, LOCAL phone number and official business hours. This will allow users searching for your services or products in your local area to access maps and directions to you. Make sure to upload pictures that accurately represent your brand.
2. Use Local Directories to Further Your Reach
There are hundreds, possibly thousands, of local directories online. You need to submit your business to those directories to improve your local reach. Luckily, there are automated services to streamline the process, such as Yext or Moz Local. There are costs involved, but your business will show up in Yahoo! Local, FourSquare, MapQuest and other such well-known sites. So, it’s well-worth the investment.
3. Get Reviews from Local Customers
Getting reviews on your Google My Business page won’t necessarily increase your Google rank. However, customer reviews are a good way to good online users to “click-through” to read the reviews. This improves your click-through rate, which improves the way Google “feels” about your local brand.
4. Acquire Local Backlinks from Other Local Businesses
There are numerous correlations between local SEO results and your website’s domain authority, which is what search engines use to measure your site’s online power. One way to improve your domain authority is to get quality backlinks to your website. As part of your local SEO tactics, be sure that you acquire links pointing to your site from local businesses specifically.
5. Make On-Site SEO a Local Marketing Priority
Google and other search engines won’t know you’re a local SEO company in San Antonio, Texas if your website doesn’t clearly state that. So, make sure your site includes the name of the business, and its LOCAL phone number and address. Reference your local market in your site’s title tag. And, be sure to optimize your Contact page with local landmarks and directions to your business.
Local SEO San Antonio
When you landed on this blog post, it was more than likely the result of using specific keywords in a search engine. Local SEO marketing will help you improve your domain authority in the San Antonio market. Contact your local San Antonio SEO experts at Funnel Boost Media for a free consultation today.