On February 23, BTS took their rightful place amongst legends when they performed a five-song set on MTV Unplugged, home to some of the most impressive performances in music.
For those who were not around in the ‘90s, the show invited some of the biggest artists of the time to take fans into the essence of their music, playing acoustic renditions of their songs and giving fans a sneak peek into their creative process. Veteran artists like Lauryn Hill, Bon Jovi, Jay-Z, Maxwell and most famously, Nirvana, have all graced the stage of MTV Unplugged, and on Tuesday night, it was BTS’s turn. For a group who are renowned for their extraordinary dance moves and elaborate stages, this was an opportunity for the septet to show the world that before anything else, they are artists.
The episode began with BTS’ first-ever performance of their lively disco-funk BE track, “Telepathy.” The track is about finding an escape from the tediousness of life and was written and composed by rapper Suga. The rapper explained during MTV Unplugged that the song came into existence after he took inspiration from older demos. For the actual performance, the septet kept it playful and fun as they performed in a home arcade in their finest casual house attire, symbolic of time spent in quarantine.
After explaining the creative process behind “Telepathy,” the mood shifted into a more somber tone for “Blue & Grey.” The pop ballad was also a first-time premiere that was written by V and originally meant to be on his upcoming solo mixtape, “Blue & Grey” takes listeners on a journey of acknowledging feelings of sadness and uncertainty.
The stripped-back nature of the song allowed for the vocal line to emote with every note they hit, with the members appearing one-by-one for their parts, dressed in simple grey suits. It was hard not to thinking of mourning, of the death of 2020 and all that we lost (and continue to lose). The set design on this particular section was spellbinding; despite the gloomy lighting, a beautiful field of flowers and tall grass filled an empty corridor with something akin to hope on a sad day.
In true Unplugged style, the group then segued into cover of Coldplay’s classic “Fix You.” A (mostly) surprise for fans, it was a standout moment that further proved BTS’s dexterity. BTS’s rendition of the pop rock ballad featured gorgeous harmonies between the vocal and rap line members — one of many highlights was leader RM’s deep, breathy vocals complementing Jin’s superb high notes.
BTS ended their episode of Unplugged with their no. 1 hits “Life Goes On” and “Dynamite.” Performed with their live band Ghost, BTS brought us back to the essence of that MTV Unplugged is about: great music and great vibes. While “Life Goes On” is a sweet and comforting song, the live band, coupled with the group looking very prep school/country club/college professor chic, added the right amount of seasoning to make it one of their best performances of the song to date. “Dynamite,” meanwhile, was a celebration in every sense word, with BTS dressed so fresh and so clean in white suits in front of a wall dotted with the band’s platinum and gold records. A not-so-subtle flex to remind the world that their legacy should never be questioned.
What is most impressive about BTS is that they are forging a path in an industry that is less than accepting of non-white artists and international artists — and doing it with style and true artistry. The septet had already established themselves as legends long before achieved multiple no. 1s on Billboard or became Grammy nominees, but BTS are continuing to build their legacy, ensuring that their names are carved into music history.
Let us slide into your DMs. Sign up for the Teen Vogue daily email.
Want more from Teen Vogue? Check this out: BTS “BE” Album Review: A Galaxy Inside a Room