).
General
Your privacy is important to us. This privacy policy is intended to give you confidence in the privacy and security of personal information we obtain when you contact us via email or subscribe to our newsletter, or information we passively collect when you visit our website.
Information We Collect
Information You Provide To Us
When you contact us via email, or subscribe to our newsletter services, we collect personally identifying information such as your email address, telephone number, first name, and last name.
Information Collected Automatically
Usage Information. Whenever you visit our website we may passively collect information about how the website is accessed and used (“Usage Information”). Usage Information may include browser type, device type, operating system, application version, the page served, the time, the preceding page views, and your use of features. This information allows us to tailor content to a website visitor’s interests.
IP Address. We use your IP address, also known as a Device Identifier, to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our website. Your IP address is used to gather broad demographic information and is stored as a partial identifier. We may use a Device Identifier to, among other things, administer the Websites, help diagnose problems with our servers, analyze trends, track users’ web page movements, help identify, and gather broad demographic information for aggregate use.
Cookies; Pixel Tags. Cookies are small data files that a website you visit may save on your computer or handheld device that usually include an anonymous unique identifier. We use cookies when applicable, to deliver content specific to your interests. You may set your browser to refuse cookies. The technologies used on our website, may include but are not limited to: cookies, website and your activities on such social networking sites.
Google Analytics. Similarly, we use Google Analytics to help us track and analyze usage of our website, using cookies, pixels and other tracking technologies.
What Do We Do With The Information We Collect or You Provide
We use the information we collect about and from you for a variety of business purposes such as to respond to your questions and requests; provide you with access to certain areas and features of the website; verify your identity; communicate with you as needed, tailor content; and for purposes disclosed at the time you provide your Personal Information or otherwise with your consent.
If you consent (for example, if you check a box, or if the box is pre-checked, you do not opt out by unchecking the box) we may send you electronic newsletters, contact you about the company, and provide you with, for future reference. The information we collect from you allows us to personalize your experience. Your information helps us to better respond to your individual needs.
Do We Share Your Policy and in the following circumstances:
Children:
This website is not intended for children under 13. We do not knowingly collect, use or disclose personally identifiable information from anyone under 13 years of age. their parent's or guardian's permission prior to using or disclosing any personal information on this website.
Security of Your Information
We take information security seriously and undertake security steps to help protect your Personal Information. However, no electronic data transmission or storage of information can be guaranteed to be 100% secure. Please note that we cannot ensure or warrant the security of any information you transmit to us.
Other Websites
Our website may contain links to other sites that we do not own or operate. We do not control, recommend or endorse and are not responsible for these sites or their content, products, services or privacy policies or practices. The privacy policy described here does not apply to third-party websites, even if they are linked to our website. Other websites you visit may have their own privacy policies or no policy at all. Other websites might use personal information differently than our policy permits.
U.S. Website
This website is operated in, and in accordance with the laws of the United States. By using the website, or providing us with.
POLICY CHANGES.
We may update this Privacy Policy at any time. Your use of this website indicates that you agree to this Privacy Policy. Changes in this policy will be posted on our website. You are advised to check our website regularly to view our most recent privacy policy.
If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices of this site, or use of our trademarks and copyrighted material, or for any other concerns please feel free to contact us.