Believe it or not ... this is not the wild, wild, west
disagree- too many stupid, hot tempered ppl out there
disagree - i don't even think people should automatically get the right to vote
Ha
I will never give up my guns for any 1/2 black, 1/2 white illegal "Kenyan" born poser and pretender-in-chief! I suggest you give up your Obama-Phones! LMAO.
yea, why dont the Obama people give up all their guns, and go ahead and disarm all the schools that the celebrity kids go to, I am sure they are protected by many weapons, while it is agianst federal law for public schools to have guns on property
I agree. Good point! TY 4 your answer!
Can I choose to have a crossbow? It's like having a one bullet gun!
DISAGREE
I agree, I can't at all times because of my job though.
only if they promise to kill each other
i believe it - they dont have to believe the way i do - but my beliefs is the only one that matters
Just me......nobody else but me, you can all me right?
disagree
Disagree. You shouldn't need to protect yourself with a gun when you are buying lettuce.
Disagree. If you want reduce the population that bad why not make birth control free? No point letting people be born only to shoot each other....
Could you imagine what hell that would be. Look not everyone is an excellent shot for starters. Plus had one too many sherbets and instead of a fist fight it is guns out and shooting.
if & only when the zombies take over
Yeah, miniguns and m60s and rpgs
Now that is not a rational idea.<br />
Hence the reason many countries have laws<br />
that prevents most people obtaining or holding<br />
a firearm license.
why not, that is what background checks are for, it is your right to bear arms, called 2nd amendment, and every citizen in the United States has a right to go buy a gun, not for duck hunting but to prevent government tryrany, like what happened in Germany, China, Australia, North Korea, etc etc etc .......
2nd amendment was not brought, this is what our country was founded on, for the people was armed and the government was not, now its backwards, I think that the White House should turn in all there semi-auto and machine guns first...........
I never said that, Americans have a right by the 2nd amendment to bear arms for protection agianst idiots that shoot our children and agianst a tryranical government
I find a fishing rod is more useful most of the time.
Related Questions
Anonymous2day 36-40 12 Answers 6 Dec 23, 2012 in Health
TheKingWizard 18-21, M 4 Answers 3 Apr 16 in Community
- Some women need to keep out of your business or get knocked out :-) agree / disagree my friends so aggressive at times
Sharkattackbate 46-50, F 4 Answers 2 Oct 30, 2012 in EP
- Corporal punishment - for or against? Any experience / statistics / theory would be greatly appreciated.
plungesponge 26-30, M 9 Answers 1 Dec 26, 2009
- I Agree. When he talks I listen. One of the most interesting people on EP. :-)..........