Tameka Arnold, LMSW, SSW
Clinical Therapist, School Social Worker
In 48080 - Nearby to Riverview.<<
Laura Mindell, MA LPC NCC
Licensed Professional Counselor
In 48336 - Nearby to Riverview.
I understand how life experiences can impact us, and cause us to feel “off balance” in our relationships with ourselves and others. Through compassionate counseling, clients explore tools heal, regain hope, rekindle happiness and thrive during the most challenging times
Thriveworks, Master & Ph.D Level Counselors
Thriveworks Beverly Hills
In 48067 - Nearby to Riverview.
Thriveworks Beverly Hills offers compassionate, confidential counseling & coaching to individuals of all ages, couples, & families. Most major insurances accepted, including Medicare & Medicaid. Extended hours and weekends available. Call today.
Sally Palaian, Ph.D
Licensed Psychologist
In 48025 - Nearby to Riverview.
I have been in practice for over 30 years, helping people to change — to discover who they are inside, and stretch to fulfill more of their potential. By providing support as you untangle yourself, I can help you learn the skills needed to make positive changes.
Chad Allee, LMSW, LPC
Therapist
In 48187 - Nearby to Riverview. Riverview.
Relationships and sex are a big part of your life, I help people make them the best parts of their lives. Couples and individuals suffering from sexual shame, sexual dysfunction, and communication problems do not have to live this way when there is help available.
Paula Kirsch, LMSW, SHCP, Michigan Trained
Licensed Clinical Social Worker
In 48202 - Nearby to Riverview.
I’m confident that together we can work to help equip you with the necessary tools to help you face and overcome challenges. Whether you’re struggling with relationship problems, anxiety, or communication issues, it is important that you know you don’t have to be alone.
Stonecrest Center, Behavioral Health Hospital
Stonecrest
In 48205 - Nearby to Riverview.
StoneCrest Center is proud to offer comprehensive services for adolescents, adults, and senior patients in need of treatment for mental health concerns, in addition to co-occurring substance use disorders.
Kathy Reilly, Ph.D.
Licensed Psychologist
In 48124 - Nearby to Riverview.
We like to create a warm, supportive environment where we help clients understand the good reasons they have for feeling and being exactly the way they are. We find that as clients make sense of and understand these reasons the struggles fall away quickly.
Kim Snyder, MS, LPC, NCC, TMH
Counselor
In 48154 - Nearby to Riverview._10<<
Shantee Foster King, PhD, PhD
Licensed Psychologist
In 48076 - Nearby to Riverview.
It's time for a change! You're feeling frustrated- in yourself, relationships, family, work. Your plate is full or you feel stuck. It's time to start making healthy choices toward healthy changes. Your vision, your purpose and your responsibilities can be in agreement!
Detroit Behavioral Institute, Capstone Academy
Detroit Behavioral Institute
In 48207 - Nearby to Riverview.
Detroit Behavioral Institute – Capstone Academy, located in Detroit, Michigan, is the area’s leading provider of mental and behavioral health treatment in a standalone academic setting for youths ages 12-18.
Rebecca Lewis, MA, LPC, CAADC, SST
Licensed Professional Counselor, Certified Advanced Alcohol and Drug Counselor
In 48161 - Nearby to Riverview.
I will help you explore your thoughts, feelings, worries, hopes, and dreams in a supportive and nurturing environment. I will assist you to develop coping skills to effectively navigate though challenges and help guide you on the path to your full potential.
You Have Found The Best Therapists in Riverview, MI. Let's Get Started and Change Your Life.
Welcome to our Michigan listing of values-centered therapists in River Riverview therapist above and start your new journey today. Riverview may have flexibility or sliding scales. Low cost counseling and affordable therapy are also sometimes offered by listed city and university level clinics, check with your local Riverview public health department.