1. Alba Botanica Exfoliating Scrub
This is marketed as a facial exfoliation product, however I actually use it for my feet. I have sensitive skin, and it was causing my face to break out. I am phasing it out of my shower because it leaves large chunks of gooey-sand that dry and stick to the tub. I never seem to notice them when I’m showering, but whenever my daughters take a bath or I’m cleaning the bathtub, I really notice how much this product builds up in the tubs basin and on the ledges.
2. Aveno’s Simply Radiant
This product is amazing. It smells wonderful, leaves my face glowing, soft, and best of all feeling healthy. I usually apply this after my facial cleanse (#3). My face has never felt better!
3. Nuetrogena’s Stress Releif Acne Scrub
I have very sensitive skin and it’s been hard to find a cleanser that actually gets the job done. When things get really stressful my face tends to break out, and this scrub has been remarkable. It has stopped the breakouts and cleared up any spots of acne that have already appeared. I follow it up with a skin toner (#2).
4. Up&Up’s Soy Shave gel
This product is found exclusively at Target. You’ll hear me talk about the Up&Up brand a lot because I’m a big fan of it. They are low cost good quality products. This particular product leaves my skin smooth with a nice natural scent to follow.
5. Yardly’s Mango Shower Gel
I give this a thumbs down because while it does smell great, I am phasing it out of my shower. It doesn’t really leave a fresh feeling or fragrance behind, but rather lathers and disappears completely leaving the experience completely unmemorable. I’m still scouting for that perfect body wash that leaves my skin feeling soft and smelling good!
6. Garnier Fructis’s Sleek and Shine Shampoo and Conditioner
I have used this product for years. It smells wonderful, leaves my hair feeling healthy and strong, and best of all it doesn’t give you that waxy buildup that other products do but does give you all the shine!
7. Massagers
This are a good add to any shower, especially after a long day. Warm water and something to work out the kinks in your lower back and shoulders is just what the doctor ordered! Can usually find these in your bath isle at your local retail chains.
8. Exfoliating Glove
These are wonderful to use for your feet, elbows, knees, and any other place you get dry skin. I usually apply some body wash and work it into a lather using this glove. Goodbye dead skin, hello good feelings!
9. Munckin tub cup
This handy tub-cup is made of a very flexible rubber. This is super helpful for when you need to rinse out the shampoo from your kids hair (press the cup to their forehead and it bends to ensure water will not get into their eyes). I store mine upside down from my shower caddy to ensure it dries and does not collect mildew and standing water.
10. Crayola color-changing loufas
This is a very fun way to get your kids excited about lathering away their dirty day. These loufas change color when they heat up (from pink to white). It’s fun to put a little magic into bath-time.