Official Page -
Official Rating 4 / 72 Votes
Latest Version 2.1.14
Supported Editor Versions 2017.4.33 or higherRead Description
*** Version 2.1 out now! *** Aura 2 is a volumetric lighting/fog solution for Unity. Aura 2 simulates the illumination of the micro-particles that are present in the environment but too small to be visible to the eye/camera. Aura 2 brings state-of-the-art volumetric lighting system to Unity. This rendering technique is the same as the one used in the latest high-end games such as Tomb Raider, God Of War, Red Dead Redemption 2, Assassin’s Creed Origins/Odyssey, Days Gone … Features : ▶ All types of light supported ▸ Full shadows support (1/2/4 directional cascade(s), spot, point) ▸ Cookie support ▶ Control Volumes (Global, Planar, Box, Sphere, Cylinder, Cone) with : ▸ Density injection ▸ Scattering control ▸ Tint control ▸ Light injection ▸ Boost control ▸ Ambient Lighting control ▸ Light Probes Lighting injection ▶ Color Temperature support ▶ Ambience Presets for 1-click kickstart ▶ Improved quality ▶ Multiple Cameras support ▶ Light Probes support ▶ Stereo / VR support ▶ Realtime preview in editor ▶ Toolbox with shortcuts ▶ Realtime Quality switch ▶ Fast Import Time ▶ Compatible with : ▸ Gaia from Procedural Worlds ▸ Amplify Shader Editor from Amplify Creations ▸ Bolt – Visual Scripting from Ludiq ▶ Opaque/Transparent* geometry support ▶ Particles illumination, fog and density ** ▶ Works in Forward/Deferred ▶ Works in LDR (Low Dynamic Range) and HDR (High Dynamic Range) ▶ Works in Gamma/Linear ▶ Texture2D and Texture3D support ▶ Dynamic 4D noise support ▶ Fully commented API Read the Documentation here. Aura 2 strictly requires full support of the following elements to work : ▶ RenderTextures (3D as well) ▶ Texture2DArrays ▶ ComputeShaders Please verify that the support of these elements is not limited especially on lower platforms. Aura 1 and Aura 2 are not compatible with each others. Please delete all references to Aura 1 before importing Aura 2 in your project. Aura 2 currently does not support SRPs, LWRP, URP or HDRP. Aura 2 was developed and tested on Windows and DirectX11. Other platforms and Consoles are on their way but are currently not guaranteed. However, experienced users have reported Aura 2 successfully working on Vulkan, Linux and MacOs + Metal. No support can currently be provided for those platforms. Discord server : Dedicated thread on the Unity Forums can be found here. Support email. * transparent objects will need modified shaders to display the volumetric lighting, that’s how Unity works. Shaders are included in the package as well as explanation for adding Aura 2 to your custom shaders. ** shaders provided in the package.