This press release (below) from the American School of Classical Studies at Athens seems appropriate for Corinthianmatters – as the century-old excavation at Corinth falls under the purview of the School, and as James Wright directs the Nemea Valley Archaeological Project.
**********************************
PRESS RELEASE: AMERICAN SCHOOL OF CLASSICAL STUDIES AT ATHENS ANNOUNCES THE APPOINTMENT OF JAMES C. WRIGHT AS NEXT DIRECTOR
DATE: NOVEMBER 7, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
The American School of Classical Studies at Athens is pleased to announce the appointment of James C. Wright as the next Director of the School, beginning July 1, 2012.
Professor Wright is Professor and William R. Kenan Jr. Chair in the Department of Classical and Near Eastern Archaeology at Bryn Mawr College and a distinguished scholar specializing in the pre- and protohistory of the Aegean region and Greek architecture and urbanism. Through his research, many publications, and the training of students he has made a significant impact on the field of Greek archaeology.
Professor Wright has a long and deep connection to Greece, the land, its people, and its cultural heritage. He is a fluent speaker of Greek, and has conducted archaeological research in Greece since 1973, at the American School’s excavations at Ancient Corinth, the Sanctuary of Zeus at Nemea, Kommos on Crete, and since 1981 has been involved in several projects in the Nemea region. He is currently the Director of the Nemea Valley Archaeological Project. His association with the American School began in 1972-1973 as a Regular Member, and he also served as the Secretary of the School from 1975 to 1977.
Professor Wright is an experienced administrator who has served on many committees at Bryn Mawr College, at the American School, and elsewhere. He is Chair of the Board of Trustees of Friends Central School, is a member of the Corporation of Haverford College, and, in addition to serving as Chair of his department at Bryn Mawr College, has been the Dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
Professor Wright holds a B.A. (1968) from Haverford College and an M.A. (1972) and Ph.D. (1978) from Bryn Mawr College.
The President of the Board of Trustees of the American School, Robert A. McCabe, commented that: “We are extremely pleased that Jim will be serving as the Director of the School. He is an extraordinarily able person with a great love for all aspects of Greece and its people. We know he will continue the tradition of excellence that has characterized the School’s Directors throughout its 130 year history.”
Professor Mary C. Sturgeon, Chair of the Managing Committee of the American School remarked that: “Jim Wright will bring to this position many years of active archaeological exploration in Greece, 30 years of teaching experience, and strong administrative skills. We are confident that Jim will use a firm hand in guiding the American School through the opportunities and challenges of the next five years.”
Professor Wright succeeds the outgoing Director of the American School, Jack L. Davis, who will return to his position as the Carl W. Blegen Professor of Greek Archaeology in the Department of Classics at the University of Cincinnati. Professor Wright will serve as Director of the School for a five-year term.
The American School of Classical Studies at Athens is the preeminent American overseas research institution devoted to the advanced study of all aspects of Greek culture from prehistory to the present day. Founded in 1881, the American School is the most significant resource in Greece for North American and international scholars in the fields of ancient and post-classical studies in Greek language, literature, history, archaeology, philosophy, and art. Governed by a Board of Trustees and representatives from a consortium of over 180 North American colleges and universities, the American School provides outstanding academic programs for students, teachers, and post-doctoral scholars. The School has. The American School also sponsors excavations and provides centers for advanced archaeological research in the Athenian Agora and Corinth, and houses the Wiener Laboratory for archaeological science in Athens. By agreement with the Greek government, the School is authorized to serve as liaison with the Greek Ministry of Culture and Tourism on behalf of North American students and scholars for the acquisition of permits to conduct archaeological work and to study museum collections.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: Irene Bald Romano, Administrative Director, U.S. office of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, 6-8 Charlton Street, Princeton, NJ 08540, 609-683-0800, ext. 23; iromano@ascsa.org.