Democratic AG frontrunner Andrew Cuomo’s campaign (finally) sent out a press release this afternoonÂ about its anti-Mark Green ad, which has been on the air in NYC since at least last night.
Cuomo spokeswoman Wendy Katz says the spot is in response to the “Mean Green attack machine.”
Katz accused Green of running “divisive and destructive campaigns” for 25 years, adding: “We will not allow his mudslinging to distort the facts of Andrew’s proven record of results.”
So, it’s Labor Day weekend, and Cuomo was comfortably ahead in the most recent Marist poll, yet he puts out an attack ad. I just don’t get it. Unless there’s something he knows that we don’t. Or maybe he’s simply paranoid.
Here’s the script:
The New York Times dubbed Mark Green “a perennial candidate”
He held a “useless post.” (The Daily News).
Accomplished little, except, in his last campaign “to divide New Yorkers against each other.” (The Amsterdam News).
So if you see Green’s ads attacking Andrew Cuomo’s service in Bill Clinton’s cabinet, know this:
Chuck Schumer and Eliot Spitzer praised Cuomo’s leadership in taking on the gun lobby.
And Bill Clinton himself said:
Cuomo “ledÂ one of the most dramatic and successful reforms of a federal agency in modern U.S. history.”
Andrew Cuomo for attorney general.Â (Still photo of Cuomo with Spitzer)
Using the paper that has endorsed Green to take a shot at him seems awfully vindictive. Or perhaps it’s simply a reaction to the fact that the endorsement had just as many negative things to say about Cuomo as it did positive things about Green.
As a commentor on a previous post noted, the whole gun lawsuitÂ thing is actually a rather sticky issue, and one that caused considerable tension in the relationship between Cuomo and Spitzer.
It’s kind of an odd one for Cuomo to choose to highlight – particularly in an ad in which he’s using Spitzer’s image.
The attorney general actually initiated talks during his first term in office aimed at getting gun makers to adopt a code of condict in hopes of changing the way they do business and staunching the flow of firearms to criminals.Â
The talks wereÂ ”taken over” by Cuomo, The New York Times reported in June 2000, much to Spitzer’s consternation. The Clinton administration had reportedly become concerned the effortsÂ initiatedÂ on the state and local levelsÂ were lagging, and wanted to step things up a notch.Â
Both Cuomo and Spitzer threatenedÂ lawsuitsÂ if companies didn’t comply – a threat on whichÂ Spitzer eventually followed through, along with some 31 other governments, including Chicago, Atlanta, Boston and Los Angeles.
The federal government considered joining their ranks, but instead negotiated a deal only with Smith & Wesson, from which the company promptly backed away, and ended up making its something of a pariah in the industry.
SpitzerÂ lost his suit, which argued the gun manufacturersÂ were contributing to a public nuisance and asked for an abatement injunction that would have required the companies to change their business practices.Â
Also over at The Daily Politics, BenÂ is suggesting David Axelrod made this ad, which is interesting, since Cuomo’s last spot was cut by Spitzer’s ad man, Jimmy Siegel.
I can’t imagine Team Spitzer giving the go-ahead to Siegel to use the gun lawsuit stuff in an attack on Green, whose brother is not only bankrolling his campaign, but has given generously to Spitzer’s gubernatorial bid, too.
Share this: