How Minerals and Vitamins can effect your Mental Health.
Minerals, vitamins and mental health.
Minerals
Iron
Iron is involved in the synthesis of serotonin, norepinephrine, GABA (gamma-amino-butyric-acid; a relaxing neurotransmitter) and vitamin B3 (niacin).
Iron deficiency may result in imbalances in other minerals important in mental health (including zinc and copper), reduction of the blood oxygen carrying capacity and increased absorption of the toxic metal lead.
Iron deficiency can contribute to hypothyroidism, which can contribute to altered mental state. This is due to irons role in the conversion of phenylalanine to tyrosine (a precursor of thyroid hormones).
While iron is required for the action of antioxidant enxyme catalase, excess iron can contribute to oxidative stress.
Depression is often a symptom of chronic iron deficiency. Other symptoms include general weakness, listlessness, exhaustion, lack of appetite, and headaches.
Zinc
Zinc is a cofactor for over 200 different enzymes, including some important in the synthesis of serotonin, norepinephrine and GABA (gamma-amino-butyric-acid).
Zinc promotes the development of brain cells, regulates copper levels and eliminates candida (fungal infection).
Zinc is required for the metabolism of Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), with zinc deficiency contributing to hypothyroidism.
Zinc is antagonistic to heavy metals which can potentially impair mental health (cadmium, lead, mercury).
Adequate zinc is require for an optimum balance of progesterone, estrogen and testosterone.
Inadequacies result in apathy, lack of appetite, and lethargy. When zinc is low, copper in the body can increase to toxic levels, resulting in paranoia and fearfulness.
Copper
Excess copper plays a role in a subgroup of people, particularly women, suffering from depression.
Some copper is required for the synthesis of norepinephrine and other chemicals important in mental health.
Copper is involved in reducing levels of histamine (a neurotransmitter important in mental health).
The enzyme monoamine Oxidase (MAO) which plays a role in the degradation of norepinephrine, epinephrine, dopamine and serotonin, requires copper as a cofactor.
Copper is involved in the synthesis of myelin, a lipid rich coating that surrounds and insulates nerve fibers.
The enzyme diamine oxidase, which breaks down histamine, requires copper as a cofactor. High copper lowers histamine levels.
Magnesium
Magnesium is involved in over 300 metabolic reactions including in serotonin and norepinephrine synthesis.
Deficiency symptoms are varied and include irritability, sleep disturbances, depression, personality changes, fatigue, anxiousness, and hallucinations, as well as a variety of physical problems. Most diets do not include enough magnesium, and stress also contributes to magnesium depletion and muscle tremors.
Histamine synthesis is increased when magnesium is deficient.
Calcium
Calcium indirectly enhances the synthesis of serotonin.
Calcium helps regulate histamine production.
Depletion affects the central nervous system. Low levels of calcium cause nervousness, apprehension, irritability, and numbness.
Chromium
Chromium regulates the effects of insulin, enhancing its metabolic effects. Excess insulin can contribute to hypoglycemia and hypothyroidism (insulin can inhibit thyroid function), both of which can contribute to impaired mental health..
Vitamins
Vitamin C
Involved in both serotonin and norepinephrine synthesis.
High dose vitamin C reduces copper levels and some heavy metals (lead, cadmium, mercury) and other toxins detrimental to brain health.
Water soluble antioxidant involved in numerous metabolic reactions.
Large doses of vitamin C may have an anti-histamine effect..
Vitamin E
May protect fatty components of brain tissue from free radicals and peroxidation.
Deficiency is associated with neurological deterioration.
May protect dietary omega-3 fatty acids from peroxidation.
One study found people with major depression had significantly lower vitamin E levels than controls.
Folate (folic acid)
Involved in serotonin, norepinephrine and histamine synthesis.
One review reported that as many as 15-38% of adults diagnosed with depression may be deficient or borderline in folate.
As supplemental folic acid can raise histamine levels and should be avoided by individuals with high histamine levels..
B12 (cobalamin)
B12 is essential for the health of the central nervous system. A deficiency can result in impaired synthesis of myelin (fatty substance that insulates nerves), impaired synthesis of nerve sheaths and an imbalance of hormone like molecules in nerve tissue. These impairments result in neurological symptoms.
B12 is also involved in the synthesis of a compound, called SAM-e, which donates a chemical group in the synthesis and breakdown of neurotransmitters.
B12 deficiency results in the trapping of folate in a form unusable to the body leading to symptoms of folate deficiency.
One review found as many as 30% of patients hospitalized for depression were deficient in B12.
A study of older women found 17% of the 100 mildly depressed subjects, and 27% of the 122 severely depressed women where deficient in B12. The subjects with vitamin B12 deficiency were 2.05 times as likely to be severely depressed as were non-deficient subjects.
The normal B12 serum reference range in the US is 200-900 pg/ml while that in Japan is 500-1300 pg/ml. Some physicians, such as John Dommisse M.D. question the reference range and recommend people maintain serum levels above 600 pg/ml. Further research is needed to clarify this, in the meantime it may be best to be on the safe side..
B1 (thiamine)
Thiamine deficiency can induce depression and irritability.
High dose thiamine may increase levels of monoamines (serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine) by inhibiting monoamine oxidase.2 (riboflavin),
Deficiency can induce depression.
Involved in norepinephrine synthesis.
B3 (niacin)
Involved in serotonin and norepinephrine synthesis.
Deficiency symptoms include depression, disorientation and memory loss.
May decrease allergic responses.6 (pyridoxine)
Involved in serotonin and/or norepinephrine synthesis.
Involved in the synthesis of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA).
Deficiency symptoms include irritability, depression, and confusion..
Biotin
Deficiency symptoms include depression.
Minerals, vitamins and mental health.
Minerals
Vitamins
This information is not intended to replace "traditional" mental health therapy. If you have questions or concerns about your physical and/or mental health ... contact your family physician and/or mental health professional in your area.