John
F. Dombrowski, M.D.
Committee on Communications
othing
strikes more fear or dread in the anesthesiologist
than when a patient in the preoperative area asks
a question such as: “Hey doc, I just saw a
movie about awareness under anesthesia, are you
going to let this happen to me?” As the readership
is aware, there have been several newspaper articles,
television articles and now a movie relating to
the topic of awareness under general anesthesia.
ASA has taken this matter quite seriously. The misfortune
of this complication and the release of the movie
have given ASA the opportunity to highlight all
the great work that we do as anesthesiologists —
the patient’s guardian in the operating room.
ASA has done several things with respect to getting
“our message out to our potential patients.”
We are trying to address sensationalism with fact,
driven by science and research.
Making Everyone Aware
For several years now, ASA has made a concerted
effort to address the issue of awareness. From our
practice guidelines to creation of an awareness
registry to support of research to preparing a response
timed to the release of the movie “Awake,”
ASA has been there to help you, the clinician, improve
the safety of your patients and to help allay their
fears and concerns. Transmitting this information
to you, our patients and the public is the responsibility
of the ASA Committee on Communications (COC) and
the ASA Communications Department. Working together,
they have coordinated the public relations efforts
of ASA.
Our efforts addressing the issue of awareness have
taken place through several avenues, including press
conferences at the ASA Annual Meeting, responding
to regulatory agency sentinel alerts, responding
to media inquiries and creation of a patient education
brochure. These brochures can be placed in physicians’
offices as well as in preadmission test centers
and preoperative holding areas. ASA has also held
a symposium on the science of awareness under anesthesia.
ASA was fortunate to have its current president,
Jeffrey L. Apfelbaum, M.D., lead this discussion.
The research that Dr. Apfelbaum and his cohorts
brought forward demonstrated that there was no one
technology of brain monitoring superior to the other
and that this was still a new but exciting area
of science. Again, it is the message of ASA that
research and science will guide our judgment —
not the profit margin of one or more brain function
monitoring companies.
Wide Awake
Finally, the movie. ASA took a proactive approach
that prepared us for the patient, public and media
interest, and ensuing concerns anticipated with
the release of “Awake.” While the movie
fizzled, ASA was in a unique position to address
patient and public concerns about the safety of
anesthesia and what we are doing to decrease the
risk of awareness. We produced public service announcements
on public television in Washington D.C., as well
as the Colorado market. A movie advertisement was
placed in theaters in major cities and was run just
before the viewing of a movie. This 20-second advertisement
demonstrated the role of the anesthesiologist and
stressed that if a patient has questions, he/she
should contact a reliable source such as ASA’s
Web site. Upon the release of the movie “Awake,”
the ASA offices and our membership received many
media inquiries. Our membership was well prepared
to handle these inquiries because of our distribution
of message points and training of members through
our spokesperson training programs. At least 20
members underwent a special spokesperson training
program dedicated to awareness under general anesthesia.
In addition, our programs at the ASA Annual Meeting
— the Leadership Spokesperson Training Program
held in conjunction with our Legislative Conference,
our resident’s workshop, and our regional
spokesperson training programs — have all
recently addressed awareness and placed us in a
position to set up individual physicians in each
state to become leaders and spokespersons with respect
to this “hot topic.” We were able to
put these state leaders in touch with their local
newspaper, radio and television journalists.
Addressing Future Needs
All of this effort was expended on just one issue.
Some of it was proactive, some was reactive. ASA
is currently considering several consulting firms
to help formulate our messages not only to the target
audiences of our patients, the public, and legislative
and regulatory officials, but also to our membership.
This activity will help us in these and future times
to supply the public with our very positive and
very effective message and leave them with a long-lasting,
positive image. Patient safety is at the core of
our specialty. An understanding of who we are and
what we do, backed by science and research, may
someday minimize the efforts that our Society must
expend in addressing sensationalism.