Gifts that are personal, gifts that keep giving
Shop Seattle's Community Services for the Blind and Partially Sighted teaching store at 9709 Third Ave. NE #100 for a wide variety of adapted products for people with impaired vision. Favorites include talking clocks and watches, large-print wall and desk calendars and address books, talking bathroom scales, and many other products. Store hours are 9-5, Monday-Friday. Mail and telephone orders welcome. Call 525-5556 or 1-800-458-4888.
Toy Manufacturers of America and the American Foundation for the Blind have published a guide to toys for children who are blind or visually impaired. For a free copy, call 1-800-851-9955.
The 1995 Toys "R" Us Toy Guide for Diffently-Abled Children is now available free at Toys "R" Us stores, featuring toys that meet the standands set by the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission and have been tested by children with disabilities.
Proceeds from the sale of "Best of Christmas in the Northwest" CDs and cassettes will benefit Children's Hospital. Christmas songs by local artists such as Ann and Nancy Wilson (Heart), Tim Noah, David Lanz, and Paul Speer are featured on the release, which is available at select record, tape, and specialty stores. Residents outside western Washington can purchase by mail; call 206-443-4666.
Order a gift from The Children's Gift Catalog from Children's Home Society and help Washington's at-risk children. The 1995/96 catalog features Red Delicious and Granny Smith apples, Anjou pears, Olympia Cheese Company's Monterey Jack and mild cheddar cheeses, Chocolate Gourmet apples, Kasilof Fish Company's smoked sockeye salmon, Caravali's Gourmet Coffee, floral and evergreen wreaths, and Fisher Scone Mix with raspberry jam. Call 1-800-817-KIDS.
The Northwest AIDS Foundation is offering an original holiday gift card from one of the Northwest's most renowned artists, Juan Alonso. Proceeds from the sale of these cards will benefit the Northwest AIDS Foundation and will support education, care and advocacy services in the fight against AIDS. Cards are $10 each (less for larger quantities). Call 329-6923 for an order form, or purchase cards at the Northwest AIDS Foundation, 127 Broadway East, Seattle, from 9-5, Monday through Friday.
Adopt a reindeer at Washington Zoological Park in Issaquah and receive a personalized certificate of adoption, a personal letter, framed picture of the reindeer, a reindeer fact sheet, plus an engraved nameplate displayed in the zoo's adoption showcase. Reindeer adoption fees start at $48 and go toward the care of the reindeer living year-round at the Zoo. Or, personalize a paving stone as part of a decorative pattern in new walkways for $36. Membership to the zoo provides free admission and other benefits and starts at $28 per year. Call (206) 392-6278.
Toys, holiday cards, sweatshirts, videos, and other items featuring manatees are available for purchase from the 1995 "Save the Manatee Club" catalog. For $20, SMC will send an adoption certificate, photo, and biography of an adopted manatee, as well as an annual newsletter subscription. Proceeds from SMC's Adopt-A-Manatee program benefit conservation programs protecting endangered manatees and their habitat. Call 1-800-432-JOIN for more information.
Purchase a gift membership ($25) to "Wolf Song of Alaska," adopt a wolf ($15), or buy a combination membership/adoption ($30) and help educate the public about wolves and their special place in the Alaskan environment. Call 1-800-243-9653.
To learn about the "100 Best Children's Products," visit the Internet site at
to review the 4th annual "Dr. Toy's 100 Best Children's Products" awards and a new monthly magazine,
Dr. Toy's Guide.
The program and guide were developed by Stevanne Auerbach, Ph.D., as a free service to parents and educators who desire to purchase safe, affordable, and stimulating products for children.