Specialties
Bottomless Mimosas
Offering 7-10 different options, our bottomless mimosas are a huge hit! They are served all day, every day.
Cafe Latte Grande
Ghirardelli Mocha
Ghirardelli Mocha Grande
Hot Chocolate
Strawberry Lemonade
Real, Hand Scooped, Ice Cream Milkshakes
Root Beer Float
Smoothies
Mocha Freeze, Mango or Strawberry Banana
Iced Tea
Unlimited Refills
Soda
Lemonade
Coffee
Hot Tea
Freshly Squeezed Orange Juice
Your order it, we squeeze it! Large $4.99
More From The Barista
Latte, Mocha, Cappachino, Espresso, Belgian White Chocolate Mocha, Hazelnut Latte, Americano & Vanilla Latte.
Sudwerk CA Dry-Hop Lager
West Coast aroma hops and German bittering hops; a refreshing twist on a helles style lager.
Davis, CA
Sierra Nevada Hazy Little Thing
As brewers, we get the privilege to sample our beers straight from the tanks in all their raw glory. Some beers need a little polishing to get ready to go. Chico,
Track 7 Panic IPA
Heavily hopped with modern American hops, featuring copious amounts of Amarillo, Centennial and Simcoe. Lurking beneath the flavorful hops are subtle citrus flavors, a not-so-subtle stone fruit, notes of grapefruit, and a slightly dank nose. Sacramento, CA
Lagunitas Undercover Investigation Shut-Down Ale
An oxymoronic ‘Imperial Mild’ – A redux to remember the ’05 St. Paddy’s Day Massacre. Defiant as to style. Petaluma, CA
Anheuser-Busch Bud Light
Brewed using a blend of premium aroma hop varieties, both American-grown and imported, and a combination of barley malts and rice.
St. Louis, MO
Device Integral IPA
West coast-style India Pale Ale brewed with Midwest malt, Northwest hops, and California ale yeast. Dry hopped with Mosaic hops to give a very pleasant hop aroma of berries, citrus, and tropical fruits. Sacramento, CA
Rancho Cordova
Make sure you always know what we’re pouring. View this location on Untappd app here.
Pabst Blue Ribbon Easy
A smooth, full bodied easy-to-drink light lager with a clean, crisp finish with a fine noble hop aroma. Los Angeles, CA
Pabst Blue Ribbon
This is the original Pabst Blue Ribbon Beer. Nature’s choicest products provide its prized flavor. Only the finest of hops and grains are used. Selected as America’s Best in 1893. Los Angeles, CA
Ol’ Republic Resolute
Stout. Blackest color in just about any beer of this ABV without the bitterness. Aromas of chocolate and coffee abound. Nevada City, CA
Auburn Alehouse Old Town Brown
Won the Bronze medal at the 2016 GABF! Styled after the classic English Brown Ale. A smooth yet complex maltiness derived from a special blend of roasted chocolate and caramel malts. Auburn,
Sudwerk Northern Pilsner
A Northern German-style Pilsner brewed entirely with pale two-row Weyermann, Bavarian Hallertauer and Tettnanger hops. Davis, CA
New Glory Ubahdank
This IPA will smack you in the face with its dank aromas and flavors. Sacramento, CA
Two Rivers Pomegranate Cider
Award-winning cider that is growing in popularity. It is a light, slightly tart cider with a subtle pomegranate aroma and flavor. Sacramento, CA
Ol’ Republic Cosmic Fly By
Super-Juicy Super-Hazy Super-Nova. With Wakatu, Amarillo & Galaxy Hops. Nevada City, CA
Boochcraft Apple Lime Jasmine
Crisp freshly pressed mixed apple varieties, lime juice, and the elegant floral aromatics of jasmine green tea unify producing a refreshing cider-esque bubbly with a soft finish. Chula Vista, CA
Boochcraft 22 oz. Bottles
Please ask your server about flavors available in bottles.
Chula Vista, CA
Track 7 Left Eye, Right Eye DIPA
Features a blend of 5 hop varieties that delivers an intense hop experience with a smooth finish. Big tangerine and grapefruit aromas power Left Eye, Right Eye while the malt flavors are purposefully subdued. Fresh and lively hop character. Sacramento, CA
New Glory Wakey Wakey
Oatmeal Coffee Porter with a special blend from Valiant Coffee, and Vanilla Beans. Sacramento, CA
Loomis Basin Golden Eagle Mandarin Wheat
American style unfiltered wheat beer infused with locally sourced mandarins. This beer is effervescent and extremely refreshing. Loomis, CA
Boochcraft Apple Lime Jasmine
Crisp freshly pressed mixed apple varieties, lime juice, and the elegant floral aromatics of jasmine green tea unify producing a refreshing cider-esque bubbly with a soft finish. Chula Vista, CA
Auburn Alehouse Gold Country Pilsner
Gold Country Pilsner is brewed as a traditional American-style Pilsner. Our pilsner is pale in color, has brilliant clarity and a soft white head. The subtle up front biscuit malt flavor balances well with the delicate hops that contribute to this beer’s dry, snappy finish. Auburn, CA
The Monk’s Cellar Mandarin White IPA
Mandarin White Milkshake IPA – Roseville, CA
New Helvetia Molly American Red Ale
This unique beer is the result of years of research and development, culminating in this, a light, full-bodied beer with a deceptively complex flavor. Made with raw Delta wheat for a soft mouth-feel and a beautiful copper color. A hefty amount of crystal malts contribute a subtle sweetness and a mild, toasted flavor. Sacramento, CA
Knee Deep Citra Extra Pale Ale
A single hop, west coast stlye american extra Pale Ale with intense hop flavor and aroma’s. This is a citrus bomb that has grapefruit and passion fruit aroma’s with citrus lime flavors. Auburn, CA