Camiant aims to provide a single multi-service platform for provisioning, bandwidth management and billing interfaces for broadband services
200 Nickerson Road 2nd Floor
Marlborough, Massachusetts, 01752,
United States
508-486-9996
Mar 12, 2015
Camiant selling to Tekelec for $130M
May 6, 2010, 10:26am EDT
//= $authorImg ?>
Save Article
Marlborough-based Camiant Inc. has agreed to be acquired for $130 million by a North Carolina IP and mobile data management company, Tekelec. According to Tekelec officials, the sale is expected to close within a week, subject to the usual closing conditions. Susie Kim Riley, founder and chief technology officer of Camiant, said that Tekelec would “make an ideal partnership to extend the power of policy control and create the foundation of the intelligent multi-service network.” Riley was named a Mass High Tech Woman to Watch honoree in 2006. According to Riley, the Camiant staff of more than 100 employees will stay on in Marlborough and become Tekelec employees once the sale closes. “This is a strategic acquisition and there are absolutely plans to keep on doing what we need to, to meet our 2010 and 2011 goals,” Riley said. For her part, Riley will become chief marketing officer of Tekelec and will remain based in the Marlborough office which will become “a center of excellence for Tekelec in the Boston area,” she said. Riley said it was Tekelec’s solid standing in the market that made it attractive as a buyer. “I think Tekelec is a company that has very sound footing in its business. It knows how to really scale a business,” she said. Camiant focuses on policy control, technology that regulates what types of applications can be used on a typical mobile or broadband platform, and what rights those applications have within the operating platform. The company, which was founded in 2003, has 30 customers worldwide, including Verizon, Vodafone, Sprint, Comcast and Cox Communications, and it lists more than 100 employees. Privately held Camiant had raised at least $16 million in funding from Matrix Partners, North Bridge Partners and Pilot House Ventures, according to federal documents. The company’s last funding round was in 2006, worth $8.1 million. Tekelec also purchased subscriber data management company Blueslice Networks Inc. of Montreal for $35 million. Want Boston Technology news in your inbox? Sign up for our free email newsletters. Industries
The CB Insights tech market intelligence platform analyzes millions of data points on venture capital, startups, patents , partnerships and news mentions to help you see tomorrow's opportunities, today.
Camiant has filed 17 patents.
Application Date
Grant Date
Title
Related Topics
Status
12/23/2009
8/4/2015
Video on demand services, Internet television, Radio modulation modes, Online content distribution, Broadband.