It looks like you're using an Ad Blocker.
Please white-list or disable AboveTopSecret.com in your ad-blocking tool.
Thank you.
Some features of ATS will be disabled while you continue to use an ad-blocker.
Originally posted by axslinger
I find it hilarious that after 3 and a half years of this disaster of a president you are still carrying the water for him. People like you are the reason our system is doomed to failure; you think an election is the equivalent of the Super Bowl in that you don't care if your players lie, cheat, steal, gamble and philander just as long as "you win".
Originally posted by axslinger
To the contrary; costs continue to rise, AZ cut funding to AHCCS leaving thousands without healthcare, hospitals are cutting staff because Medicare isn't paying and uninsured/noncollectable accounts have skyrocketed. (I know this to be a fact...I work in healthcare).
After months of uncertainty, Gov. Jan Brewer this week has proposed a fresh set of middle-of-the-road budget cuts in the state’s medical program for the poor, which provides coverage for nearly one in three Gila County residents.
However, this week the Senate adopted a budget that included Brewer’s original,, deeper cutbacks.
Brewer signed the 2011 legislative budget which eliminates the Arizona variant of the State Children's Health Insurance Program program, known as KidsCare, that provides health insurance to uninsured children[21] whose families' income exceeds the Medicaid cutoff.[22] According to the FY 2011 budget, enrollment caps will also be put into place for Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System (AHCCCS), thereby limiting access to the program.
now half way down is what Obama is said to have saidnow half way down is what Obama is said to have said
Washington (CNN) -- The Justice Department obeyed a federal appeals court's unusual order Thursday in a legal and political spat over the health care law championed by President Barack Obama.
now did he Obama just say the court has no right to do what they want to do this law? it seems sonow did he Obama just say the court has no right to do what they want to do this law? it seems so
The latest dispute surfaced Monday when the president said, "I."
so where is the back peddling? here it isso where is the back peddling? here it is
Judge Jerry Smith, a Reagan appointee, was especially tough on a Justice Department lawyer defending the law and specifically mentioned."
but alas, this is MSM news take for what it is worthbut alas, this is MSM news take for what it is worth
The letter affirmed the government's stance that federal courts indeed have the authority to decide the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act -- and any other law Congress passes.
"The power of the courts to review the constitutionality of legislation is beyond dispute," said the letter, signed by Attorney General Eric Holder.
Originally posted by Jean Paul Zodeaux
reply to post by NOTurTypical
Remind him there are 9 SCOTUS Justices, and there will always be a partisan majority.
When there is a unanimous decision - as there was with the recent Bond v. United States ruling, I fail to see how this would be fairly called a "partisan majority".
Originally posted by xuenchen
Looks like Holder filed the court ordered papers !...
Originally posted by Nite_wing
Originally posted by xuenchen
Looks like Holder filed the court ordered papers !...
I was wrong when I repllied Holder would not reply.
I apologize. I didn't think he had the pistachios to lower himself to the Court.
He still stuck up for the administration's lack of good judgment but then, I don't think he shows very good judgment himself.