Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka
The Myth, The Man, The Golf Legend, Fuzzy Zoeller is known around the world for his golfing success, charismatic character and outgoing personality! His credits include winning ten times on the PGA Tour, including the 1979 Masters and 1984 U.S. Open along with the 1985 and 1986 Skins Game, just to name just a few.
Fuzzy’s commitment to golf goes beyond playing the game, as he is also well known for his golf course design, and designing nineteen courses, 3 of which host PGA Tour events. Fuzzy also owns two golf courses located in Southern Indiana, Covered Bridge Golf Club and Champions Pointe Golf Club, he makes countless special appearances and has attended numerous corporate golf events.
In addition to his golf victories, golf course design, and special aapperances, Fuzzy has also received several awards for his sportsmanship and charitable work through his Fuzzy’s Charities for Kids, raising nearly $2,000,000 over the years.
Superior Taste and Gluten Free
Fuzzy Zoeller knows what victory tastes like and he wants to share that with you! Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka sports an award winning taste, that is truly distinctive, especially after he spent nearly four years creating a something that not only satisfied, but exceeded his tastes and preferences. Distilled five times from corn, and with the addition of Cascade Mountain spring water, this blend creates a smooth crisp finish, that is also Gluten Free.
Theoretically, distillation of any alcoholic beverage, if done properly, should remove all the gluten. However, not all makers of alcoholic beverages distill enough times to purify their beverages completely, and some add in a little of the grain "mash" (which can contain gluten) following distillation to improve color and flavor. You never have to worry about this with Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka because again, it is made from corn.
The vodka itself is clear and very clean, with mild aromas having the faintest hint of citrus. It's clean and pure, with a delicate and delicious flavor. Perfect for making an awesome martini!
Testing & Awards
Over the past couple of years, Fuzzy has personally conducted numerous blind taste tests with family, friends and golf fans at professional tournaments, pitting his vodka against every "heavy hitter" in the vodka category. He feels the key factor is the smoothness, and smoothness is what his vodka provides.
States Fuzzy, "I poured several different samples of various brands in a blind tasting. Everyone chose Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka over the other brands. I knew I liked it, but that confirmed everything when they choose it as well. I knew we had a winner."
To Compare Corn Vodkas Click Here!
The Beverage Testing Institute uses a dedicated tasting lab in Chicago, where testing methods there are specially designed to minimize external factors and maximize the panelists' concentration. Tasting at the same time of day practically every weekday morning, under the same ideal conditions..
Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka has been awarded two gold medals and a 94 rating from the Beverage Testing Institute, proving that it is clearly more than another celebrity brand. Jerald O'Kennard, the Director of the Beverage Testing Institute agreed, stating that, "94 is an extremely good score, and unusually high!"
Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka is quite exceptional, and the review places it in the upper echelons of vodkas worldwide in terms of quality, flavor and smoothness. In addition, Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka also received the 2012 Chairman's Trophy for the Best Unflavored Vodka from the Ultimate Spirits Challenge, rating it the best in the world.
Click To View Awards
The BTI Gold Medal confirms our confidence that we can now prove to those who haven't tasted it, that we are one of the world's best tasting ultra premium vodkas."
Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka is an exceptional 100% American-Made brand, that is currently available in 36 states, and continues to grow throughout the nation and soon the globe. Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka
Visit Fuzzy's Online Store
Like Fuzzy Ultra Premium Vodka On Facebook
Follow Fuzzy On Twitter @FuzzysVodka
Where To Buy Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka
Fuzzy's Ultra Premium Vodka Recipes
For more information about Fuzzy, please visit. Drop Fuzzy a note at fuzzy@fuzzyvodka.com.
20 Comments
This is really smooth vodka! My wife and I really like it and she really enjoys your cocktail recipes!
I’m going to try to find this vodka today, I hope someone carries it in my area! :/
Love this!! So good in your cocktail recipes!
Nice! Finally somebody who thinks about those of us who want to be healthy but still have fun!
Excellent Vodka! Great suggestion.
I will look for this, it sounds really good.
Nice review. Is this Vodka sold in the Salt Lake City area?
Kobe, you may need to check Fuzzy’s main website for locations. 🙂
Thanks for the recommendation! Really like this and will pick up more this weekend!
Mmmmmmmmmm now this is my type of post!!!
I have to find this Vodka now!!! Your drink recipes sound very good…thinking about giving a few of them a try!!!
Wonderful vodka, very smooth taste!
Excellent Vodka! I had no idea that this existed or that you were so well rounded and covered Alcohol.
I picked up a bottle of this for my dad who love golfing and vodka and he thinks it’s awesome!! Thank you for sharing TSOE!
My Christmas idea for my husband and father in law!
Sounds good, I’m going to look for some of this, thanks for sharing!
He makes VODKA? I had no idea, I just may give it a shot. No pun intended…
Nice I will look for this! I really like the taste of Vodka.
My father loves Fuzzy the golfer, I need to pick him up some of this Vodka! I’m sure he would love it, and a great Christmas gift idea!