Apex Digital Graphics, the official UK distributor of Ryobi printing equipment, has announced the introduction of a new B2-format, space-saving offset-litho press of unitised construction, the Ryobi 760E Series.
Available for order in the UK from the beginning of September, the Ryobi 760E Series sits between the company’s two existing B2-format machines, the 750 Series and the entry-level 780E products, in both physical size and price.
Taking approximately 26% less floor space than an equivalent 750 Series press, the new press is available in two to six-colour configurations, with a convertible perfecting option available.
Space savings come from the inclusion of the Ryobi PCS-K printing control system above the delivery section of the machine, and new-style footboards. The press is based on the true unit design of the 750 Series, incorporating the same 7 o’clock cylinder layout with double sized impression and transfer cylinders.
Commenting on the introduction of the new press, Neil Handforth, Sales and Marketing Director of Apex Digital Graphics, said: “We are delighted that Ryobi have responded so positively to the changes in demand from the market place. The 760 Series opens up new possibilities with its compact design within a unitised structure. In spite of the number of digital products launched into the B2 sector at Drupa, most of which will not be commercially available for some time yet, we are convinced that offset still has a significant role to play in this format. This focus is enhanced by Ryobi’s ability to integrate the Kodak Prospect digital imaging head into a machine build to provide a hybrid printing solution.”
The Ryobi / Kodak partnership, announced during Drupa, is already allowing printers to combine the best of offset with the personalisation capabilities of digital production – a combination that Apex see as bringing the best of both world’s together.
Paper Handling
Handling paper sizes through to 765 x 600mm (30.12 x 23.62 inches) the new Ryobi 760E provides for a maximum printing area of 765 x 545mm for the S type machine, and 765 x 580 for the XL type press. A double-diameter impression cylinder and transfer drum aid stable and efficient paper transport, even when printing heavier stocks. Paper weights from 0.04 through to 0.6mm are accommodated for straight printing, with a maximum of 0.4mm for perfecting. The 760E press is capable of printing up to 13,000 sheets per hour.
Semi-automatic plate changing is provided as standard for fast and efficient plate changing. Ryobi-matic continuous dampening ensures uniform dampening of the plate and together with the heavy duty inking system, help produce the sharpest of dots and heaviest of solids, whilst the ultrasonic double sheet detector fitted as standard helps to ensure fast and efficient running of the press.
Ryobi long-trusted program inking automatically selects the right conversion curve for each colour according to the image area ratio data that has been calculated during the pre-press stage and Ryobi’s PDS-E SpectroJet is available to numerically control the printing process.
For perfecting the 760EP models are equipped with a convertible perfecting device consisting of a single-diameter transfer drum, a double-diameter storage drum, and a single-diameter turning drum. Switching between straight and perfecting printing modes can be controlled from the touch panel display of the printing control system. web site.
ENDS
August Special Offer (UK): Buy a Morgana DigiFold Pro for just £99 per week, AND get a FREE folder, laminator, or multi-function device!
Our Tech & Comms News now has its own Twitter feed: click for details.