.
INVESTOPEDIA EXPLAINS 
Reserve Bank Of New ZealandThe Reserve Bank of New Zealand is New Zealand's central bank ...
Pension FundA fund established by an employer to facilitate and organize ...
Funded StatusThe status of pension plan that has accumulated assets that have ...
KiwiA slang term for the New Zealand dollar (NZD). It derives its ...
SuperannuationAn organizational pension program created by a company for the ...
Current Service BenefitThe amount of pension benefit accrued by an employee who had ...
RELATED FAQS
How does a pension income drawdown work?While there are similar drawdown plans in the United States, a pension income drawdown plan most commonly refers to a specific ... Read Full Answer >>
What is fiduciary liability insurance, and what are its benefits?Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), any individual who manages a employee benefit or pension plan ... Read Full Answer >>
Why are insurance companies and pension funds considered financial instruments?Insurance policies are widely considered to be financial instruments. Pension funds may contain many different types of financial ... Read Full Answer >>
Should I purchase a master limited partnership (MLP) in my retirement account?Most investors should not purchase units in a master limited partnership, or MLP, in their retirement accounts. MLPs offer ... Read Full Answer >>
How should I invest the money I keep on my IRA?For individuals who are just starting to save, certificates of deposit can be a good place to start, but the interest rates ... Read Full Answer >>
Why choosing the right investment advisor is crucial for your portfolio's healthJust as finding a good mechanic will help keep your car running smoothly, finding a good broker or financial advisor can ... Read Full Answer >>
Related Articles
- Retirement
Pension Plans: Pain Or Pleasure?Employees have a love/hate relationship with this retirement option.
- Forex Education
Top 8 Most Tradable CurrenciesCurrencies can provide diversification for a portfolio that's in a rut. Find out which ones you need to know.
- Retirement
Weave Your Own Retirement Safety NetBuild savings to support yourself in case pension plans and Social Security fall through.
- Forex Education
Get To Know The Major Central BanksThe policies of these banks affect the currency market like nothing else. See what makes them tick.
- Investing
Financial Gifts For Grads: Kindergarten To CollegeIf you really want to help your grad preparing for the future, consider a present that supports their long-term goals—an early start to financial planning.
-
Why Doing Your Taxes is Good Retirement PlanningIncome tax time is a great time to reevaluate retirement planning, since all the information you need is right at your fingertips.
- Professionals
Is ‘Free’ Now the Best Price for Online Advice?For many investors, robo-advisors may be a better deal than traditional financial advisors, though they should know what kind of tradeoffs are involved.
- Retirement
Worst 5 States That Save The Least In RetirementIf you're picking a place to retire, before you just stick a pin in the map, check out these cautionary criteria. Here are 5 of the tough ones.