And no, I'm not talking about the hotel room.
As you know, I'm the Maid of Honor for my darling sister's wedding. Or, as she calls me.. Maid of Horror. (I'm just not cut out for this, y'all..) The hardest part has to be not being in Trinidad with her and trying to plan everything. I'm a visual person and like to see what I'm working with, so discussing ordering invitations and not being able to see what she's doing or looking at was difficult.
Luckily, when we were ordering invitations for her engagement party, we were using Wedding Paper Divas. If you haven't read my post about ordering samples for invitations, I suggest you do it now. WPD made it so ridiculously easy for me to follow along on whatever idea she was going with, because we managed to each order our own set of samples - so we saw the same samples in person and could mutually decide on what we liked, instead of me going crazy trying to visualize the paper and material and text and feel and quality.
We ordered the most beautiful engagement invitations (we ordered these), had a perfect engagement party where I got to see the love of her life put a perfect ring on her finger (I'm Lebanese, and our tradition is to wait until the engagement party and the ring is blessed before you can put the ring on your finger) and danced all night. It was practically a wedding. Except it wasn't.
The day after the engagement, Steph and I decided we didn't want to wait, and wanted to order thank you cards right away. And where better to look than Wedding Paper Divas? That's where the wedding suite comes in.
Wedding Paper Divas literally has everything you need for your wedding, engagement party, or anything. Whether it's save the dates, invitations, bridal shower invites, thank you cards or all of the above in one big package, they have you covered. And the quality is like none other. I'm telling you it impressed my mother, and she's the pickiest person I know..
The day after the engagement, Steph and I decided we didn't want to wait, and wanted to order thank you cards right away. And where better to look than Wedding Paper Divas? That's where the wedding suite comes in..
Oh my goodness, this sounds like such a great brand! I have so many friends planning weddings, so I'm going to pass this link on a long to them :)
XX, SS || A Little Seersucker Sass
Wow, those look gorgeous! Good luck planning the rest of the wedding, I will def be awaiting more posts about the lead up to the big day!
xx Kim
mainelyfashion.blogspot.com
LOVE these how adorable! I'm excited to stationary shop!
xoxo
These are so beautiful! You did great girl
Seriously sounds like such a great company to work with! When you have such excellent customer service I'm sure that takes so much stress off the wedding!
Pick Your Beau
I'll definitely have to keep Wedding Paper Divas in mind for when I get married. I'm really nervous about choosing my bridesmaids because most of the ones I want to choose live so far, which will probably make planning things a little difficult for them like it has been for you, but I'm sure everything will turn out okay in the end (duh it will). The invites pictured above are so cute and elegant! I love them.
I loooooove wedding planning and I'm so jealous you're doing it as the MOH!
Beautiful design. I wish I would have known about them when I got married!
Sounds like a great company, oh if only I knew about it last summer when both of my little sisters got married! I'll definitely have to keep them in mind for any friends weddings!! The invites look so perfect!
Those are gorgeous!
I'll keep this company in mind for future reference.
xoxo, Jenny || Breakfast at Lillys
How fun that you're a Maid of Honor!! (I can't wait to be in a wedding someday). Those invitations are all seriously gorgeous- I will definitely pass this site on if I have any friends getting engaged soon!
xoxo A
Congratulations on your sister's engagement! Even though it's a lot of work I'm sure being Maid of Honor is exciting! The invitations and everything y'all picked out are gorgeous!
xx. Brittany
Life Like a Twenty Something
Congrats to your sister! And those invites and cards are just beautiful!
These are absolutely beautiful! I know I'll use Wedding Paper Divas when I get engaged and married. Thanks for sharing!
This is a gorgeous venue for events. I went here some time back and was impressed the second I stepped through the door of location for vows. I'm hoping that I'll get to go back for other events to enjoy great company and beautiful surroundings.