Al-Jazeerah: Cross-Cultural
Understanding
Opinion
Editorials, August 2015
Share this article with your facebook)
Lone-wolf operations refer to retaliatory attacks by individuals having
deep grievances resulting from overwhelming oppression. Such
attacks are almost impossible to categorize or systematize, let alone
forecast. It is very hard to predict when and where they will happen.
This type of attacks occurs from time to time in occupied Palestine,
especially when the level of Israeli repression of Palestinians reaches
exceptionally high levels. The attacks usually assume several
forms, including, inter alia, stabbing with a knife or a similar sharp
tool, hitting with a metal object, running over soldiers or settlers using
vehicles (vehicular attacks). Most Palestinians feel such attacks
are inevitable if not legitimate due to overwhelming Israeli repression,
which includes cold-blooded murder outside the law as well as hefty jail
sentences disproportionate to violations committed. Palestinians
are also subject to draconian punishments and reprisals including
home-demolitions, land confiscation, stringent restrictions on travel
movement, and denial of employment opportunities as well as flagrant
incarceration for years without charge or trial. Recently, the
Israeli political-establishment started setting messianic Jewish settlers
to attack Palestinian civilians. Israel denies instructing
settlers to carry out "dirty acts" against Palestinians, including setting
Palestinian homes on fire, burning mosques and churches as well as
terrorizing Palestinian civilians and vandalizing their property.
However, the relentless persistence of Jewish terrorist acts in the West
Bank leaves no doubt as to the collusion and implicit coordination between
the paramilitary settlers and the military establishment. The new
(old) reign of terror campaign has resulted in some Nazi-like incidents,
including the burning to death of a Palestinian toddler, Ali Dawabshe, and
his father at the village of Duma, south of Nablus, about two weeks ago.
Israel has utterly failed to put an end to such criminal acts as
settlers feel well protected by the security establishment as well as by
the brazenly biased justice system which itself is heavily infiltrated by
settlers and their sympathizers. Needless to say, this heavy
handed oppression of a people languishing under a harsh occupation for
decades serves to narrow Palestinian horizons. It generates a lot of rage,
frustration and a burning desire for revenge. It also pushes Palestinian
youngsters, both men and women, to the edge. Hence, the lone-wolf
incidents. The bulk of Palestinians, like all people under the
sun, love and value life. Claiming otherwise is illogical and dishonest.
However, when life becomes an enduring and unrelenting nightmare, as
is often under the Israeli occupation, many Palestinians, especially
youngsters, don't hesitate to harbor second thoughts. That is why,
Israeli criminality is first and foremost to blame for the desperate acts
carried out by desperate people whose lives have been crushed to
smithereens by the evil acts and policies of the Israeli state. In
fact, we can argue with very little exaggeration that the lone-wolf
attacks against Israeli targets are the inevitable "effects" or
side-effects of Israel's long-established policy against the Palestinian
people, a policy whose ultimate goal is to force as many Palestinians as
possible to leave their ancestral homeland. I am not eager to hurl
the Nazi epithets at Jews. However, when Jews think, behave and act like
the Nazis did, we should never hesitate for a moment to call the spade a
spade. Yes, Israel is not shipping Palestinians to concentration
camps. But Israel is killing Palestinian by other means. Israel is also
tormenting Palestinians in a variety of ways, including blockading their
population centers and denying them basic human rights and civil
liberties.Needless to say, I can provide a thousand examples to
corroborate my argument. Lone-wolf operations can be prevented
True, it is next to impossible to prevent lone-wolf operations from
happening. In the final analysis, one cannot prevent a person so intent on
dying from dying. Moreover, it is well-established that such
individuals have deep grievances which they can't reconcile with, as many
of them have gone through the painful experience of seeing their relatives
murdered before their eyes, or watching their homes blown up or demolished
into bits and pieces by indifferent Israeli soldiers. Sometimes,
when the level of oppression reach a certain high level, concern for life
by the victims becomes a secondary factor. This is the reality that the
Israeli establishment chooses to ignore due to its insolence,
recalcitrance and arrogance of power. As mentioned above, no
Palestinian takes his life cheaply. No Palestinian is eager to consign
himself or herself to the hereafter for disingenuous reasons.
However, when life becomes worse than death, death becomes a dear and
sought-after wish. None the less, Palestinian youngsters can be
dissuaded from embarking on individual attacks, which pop up into one's
head at the spur of the moment, if Israel starts treating Palestinians
with a modicum of respect and humanity. Introducing a level of
civility and decency into Israel's treatment of the Palestinians would
cost Israel absolutely nothing. On the contrary, it would spare
Israeli lives as well as Palestinian lives. Would Israel be wise
enough and smart enough to do it? I honestly doubt it.
Khalid Amayreh is a Palestinian journalist and current affairs commentator
living in Dura in the southern West Bank.
Opinions
expressed in various sections are the sole responsibility of their authors
and they may not represent Al-Jazeerah & ccun.org.
editor@aljazeerah.info
&
editor@ccun.org