As we age, the wear and tear of everyday life results in damage to our DNA. Research shows that we are able to slow down and reduce this damage by increasing specific nutrients.
The challenge
We are all getting old
We are all aware of the wear and tear daily life has on our body, what we might not be so aware of is that some wear and tear also impacts our body's DNA, which is the blueprint of our life. As we age, the quality of our DNA declines, increasing the risk of some diseases.
DNA damage is the most fundamental cause of developmental and degenerative disease and accelerated ageing.
Our response
You are what you eat
What we eat, how much we exercise, lifestyle habits and our environment all have an influence on how much DNA damage occurs. Pioneering CSIRO research has demonstrated that damage to the bodies DNA is a fundamental disease that can be diagnosed and partially reversed.
A team of CSIRO scientists identified nine micronutrients that are significantly associated with DNA damage. The group also showed that supplementation with certain micronutrients can reduce DNA damage.
Through work lead by Dr Michael Fenech, CSIRO has developed a technique for measuring DNA damage which has placed us at the forefront of research and development of diagnostics.
The results
Damage control
Based on this research, Dr Fenech proposed a novel diseases prevention strategy based on the diagnosis and nutritional treatment of genome damage. This led to the development of Reach100 , a medical clinic offering diagnostic blood tests that measure DNA damage and information relating to the nutritional, life-style and environmental factors that influence it.
The team at Reach100 checks the levels of important micronutrients in the patient's blood, including red cell folate, serum folate and Vitamin B12, which are all essential for the body’s ability to replicate healthy DNA. Reach100 doctors then make recommendations about the health of the patients DNA, based on the results of these tests.
Do business with us to help your organisation thrive
We partner with small and large companies, government and industry in Australia and around the world.