Now accepting applications. Application deadline is Friday, June 16th. Florida State University is seeking a dynamic, innovative and student development-centered individual for the position of Sport Club Coordinator. Our sport club program is home to over 40 sport and recreation-focused student organizations.
The successful candidate will provide shared leadership for a comprehensive university-wide recreational program designed for more than 50,000+ students, faculty, and staff, and will assist with cultivating and delivering the departmental brand to the entire community. The successful candidate will promote and cultivate an environment that values inclusiveness and diversity, engage in evidence-based decision-making, and promote student development and learning. The mission of Florida State University Campus Recreation is
Directs, administers, supervises, and promotes Campus Recreation's Sport Club program, which consists of over 40 intercollegiate club organizations. Collaborates with various campus and community partners to coordinate and organize programming and special events with Sport Clubs. Serves as a liaison to the Florida State University community and Sport Club Council with the FSU Student Government Association.
Develops, administers and manages the budgeting, allocation and expenditures of financial resources for all Sport Club organizations in coordination with the Sport Club Council. Processes University documents related to expenses, employee wages, and travel. Provides procurement, inspection of facilities and equipment for Sport Clubs organization. Oversees the Sport Club Foundation account and works closely with the Foundation to ensure funds are managed correctly.
Provides advice, guidance and support to Sport Club student leaders and club members in support of the unique mission of each sport club organization. This includes providing training, oversight and leadership in regards to policies and procedures, risk management guidelines, membership issues, and club promotions. Provides safety training to Sport Club members.
Recruits, hires, trains, supervises, and evaluates Sport Club program assistants. Assists in the supervision of facility sport supervisors. Provides support for equipment maintenance and facility and event set-up for scheduled Sport Club and Campus Recreation games, matches, and special events.
Maintains promotional and resource-based web pages for the Sport Club program on the departmental web site. Gathers, analyzes, evaluates, and reports data from participants and others concerning the Sport Clubs program and related activities.
Works closely with Campus Recreation travel representatives on processing travel reimbursements for Sport Club participants. Assists Campus Recreation Property Custodian with maintaining Sport club inventory. Serves on various University, divisional, and departmental committees.
Qualifications
Bachelor's degree in Sport Management, Leisure, Recreation, Physical Education, or related field and two years of experience.
Certified in Red Cross CPR and First Aid or ability to become certified within the first 6 months of hire.
Preferred Qualifications
Master's degree in Sport Management, Leisure, Recreation, Physical Education, or related field.
Application Process
To apply, visit. At the FSU site, review the application instructions, then click the "Browse Job Openings" link. Under keywords, type 41606 and select Sport Club Coordinator under the search results. Select apply to apply for Job Opening ID 41606.
Candidates must apply via this FSU web site to be considered for the position. Applicants must complete application even if attaching resume. Application deadline is Friday, June 16