NDPC/N News | Solutions | Top Stories | Sound Connections | Videos | Policy Updates | Effective Strategies | Students with Disabilities | Funding | Resources and Tools | Feedback
NDPC/N Newsletter:
Native Education - Volume 23, Number 1
· Traditional Native American Education
· Who Counts as Native?
· GAINS in the Bering Strait
· SIENA: Comprehensive Education for Native Americans
Read it Online
24th Annual National Dropout Prevention Network Conference
October 14-17, 2012. Rosen Plaza Hotel Orlando, Florida.
Please mark your calendars! The National Dropout Prevention Center/Network, in partnership with The Florida Department of Education, would like to invite you to submit a proposal to present at the 24th Annual National Dropout Prevention Network Conference,
Ignite the Potential Within; Connect, Inspire, Graduate
! Proposals are being accepted through June 29th.
Conference Information
Featured Publication
2012 National Forum on Dropout Prevention for Native and Tribal Communities
The conference in Phoenix was a great success! We had 365 participants from 33 different states!
Watch presentation videos
and
view images
from the 2012 National Forum on Dropout Prevention for Native and Tribal Communities.
Sale of the Month
Building Authentic Relationships with Youth At Risk
In May, we will focus on the importance of establishing authentic relationships with your students, as relationships are such an important component of dropout prevention. Our package for Sale of the Month includes both the Professional Development DVD on Building Authentic Relationships With Youth At Risk and its accompanying monograph by the same title, by Gayle McGrane!
Ordering Information
Interview with Rep. Jerry Govan, Jr.,
winner of the prestigious Governor and Mrs. Richard W. Riley Award at the 24th Annual At-Risk Youth National Forum. Rep. Govan has served in the South Carolina House representing Orangeburg since 1992 and is currently County Attendance Supervisor for Orangeburg School Districts 3, 4, and 5.
Listen In
.
Board Member Interviews
Each week, meet new featured Board members
Arthur Griffin, Jr.
, Senior Vice President, National Urban Markets, McGraw-Hill Education
Information about other featured board members can be
accessed here
.
Top Stories
Report highlights importance of quality curriculum materials
. The quality of curriculum materials plays a significant role in determining student achievement, according to a new report by the Brookings Institution. Researchers are calling for increased focus by the federal government, states, and nonprofit groups on the creation of new instructional materials that will be aligned with the Common Core State Standards. (
Education Week
)
A trend we can't afford
. The National Institute for Early Education Research has released its 2011 State of Preschool report, which calls state-funded pre-K over the past decade "education's biggest success story." Enrollment has grown dramatically, as has quality.
Sound Connections
Free Webinar:
From Paper to Practice: Implementing the Common Core State Standards in English/Language Arts
, May 1 from 2 – 3 pm (if you missed it, you can access it from the archives).
Videos
"
Boys are out of synch with the culture of schools today
." Ali Carr-Chellman gives three reasons why boys today are out of synch with the culture of schools and how to combat these problems. (
The Boys Initiative Weekly News Roundup
)
U.S. Department of Education Releases Blueprint to Transform Career and Technical Education
.. (
WAMU – American University Radio
)
Policy Updates
How one school implemented a flipped instructional model
. When a Minnesota high school lacked the resources to replace aging textbooks, the school adopted a flipped instructional model that allowed teachers to develop their own resources and deliver them online. An important step in adopting the flipped learning model, educators said, was the school's decision to allow access to YouTube. (
T.H.E. Journal
)
Effective Strategies
Afterschool Opportunities
Afterschool Programs That Follow Evidence-Based Practices to Promote Social and Emotional Development Are Effective
. This research summary by Joseph Durlak (Loyola University Chicago) and Roger Weissberg (University of Illinois at Chicago) underscores the link between high-quality programs and student achievement.
Study Weighs Benefits of Organizing Recess
. Researchers find that a structured approach to managing recess led to less bullying and more time for learning. (
Ed Week
)
Career and Technical Education (CTE)
Free Webinar
Improving Student Engagement Through Early Career Mapping
, Tuesday, May 22 @ 3 pm ET
Individualized Instruction
How project-based learning is transforming one Oregon school
. A unique project-based learning model is being used to help transform education at a once struggling alternative high school in Cottage Grove, Oregon. The school's principal, Tom Horn, created a curriculum based on sustainability, with students divided into five cohorts. (
Ed Week
)
Students with Disabilities
Study Links Dyslexia to Visual Attention Problems in Preschool
. In a
study
recently published in the journal
Current Biology
, Italian researchers say they've found a link between having problems with visual attention in the preschool years and later struggles with reading.
Funding
Funding source are available on the
NDPC/N Web site
.
Resources & Tools
STATE CARDS: "High Schools in Your State"
Tips for Planning Interdisciplinary Units in Middle School
10 of the Best Apps for Education
(
eSchool News
)
Facebook releases guide for school counselors
(
ASCD
)
Tips for improving questioning during lessons
(
ASCD
)
The Learning Registry: A Better Way to Share Lessons and Resources
(
Ed Week
)
Teaching Channel
free videos about good teaching practice (
MiddleWeb
)
Videos offer ideas on teaching poetry in the classroom
(
Edutopia
)
A low-cost alternative to an interactive whiteboard
(
ASCD
)
Feedback
We appreciate comments from our readers. We invite new subscribers to receive the Dropout Prevention Update. Please contact us at ndpc@clemson.edu
The National Dropout Prevention Center
on Facebook.
Dropout Prevention UPDATE | May 2012 - Vol.12 No.5
National Dropout Prevention Center/Network
Clemson University | 209 Martin Street | Clemson, SC 29631
864.656.2599 | Fax: 864.656.0136 |
ndpc@clemson.edu
unsubscribe
|
Open in a web browser
.