A global Leader
Our mission is to create a sustainable global carbon sequestration market based on a Removal Unit Program (RMU) – that also helps local communities by creating self-sustaining programs in agriculture, clean energy and food security.
With the development and implementation sustainable climate smart agriculture, afforestation programs, renewable technologies and energy in arid and semi arid regions, we are helping create healthy communities and economics.
Prince Xavier is an.
Mr. Sanchez Cortina.
Mr. Ramirez is a Biologist and graduated from the National Autonomous University of Mexico. He came to Itoco from the World Resources Institute (WRI) – Mexico, where he is the Forest Carbon Coordinator.
He was responsible for coordinating Carbon Capture (CO2) forestry projects through the formation of community technical capacities; linking forest communities at the national level; advising on removal of inventories, monitoring, reporting and verification. As well, he actively participated in the implementation of activities aimed at influencing public policy on issues of biodiversity, management of forest resources and mitigation of climate change.
His past collaborations include being a consultant for entities such as CONAFOR, PROBOSQUE, SEDEMA, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Mexico, Climate Action Reserve (CAR), PRONATURE, and ClimateSeed, among others. He has worked for the development and evaluation of the viability of CO2 Carbon Capture forestry projects, and he has experience as a verifier in compliance with forestry regulations in matters of sustainability with an emphasis on biodiversity and social aspects.
As the first Mexican verifier accredited by CAR, Mr. Ramirez has participated in the review and proposal of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) removal protocols such as the CAR Forest Protocol for Mexico v.2.0 and the Draft Forest Protocol for the Emissions Trading System (SCE MX).
His main activities are focused on the sustainable management of natural resources through the participation of rural communities, technical training, and national and international dissemination of the current status of the potential of Mexican forests and agriculture for Carbon Credit and Capture markets..
Ms. Tattersfield has joined ITOCO as one of the members of the Board of Directors).