URBAN MISSION FIELDS RIPE FOR HARVEST
Jesus intentionally goes through Samaria to reach out to the last, the least, and the lost, which is the mission of his life. When the disciples returned to him, they were surprised that Jesus’ mission to make disciples included a Samaritan woman. The disciples didn’t say anything and tried to change the subject from the mission to talking about a meal. Jesus responds, ).
Church of God Urban Missions seeks to open the eyes of the church and look at fields that are ripe with very few people and or resources to reap the harvest. Many churches in poor socioeconomic communities are considered urban churches. The truth is there are mission fields right in our backyard that need strategic partnerships to shift the urban church from a “survive” mindset to a thrive mindset. Churches in the urban mission field have worked with strategic partners to build up the church family in several ways.
In Baltimore, Maryland, a church that is well resourced in a suburb of Baltimore has helped to improve the quality of life in the neighborhood and renovate an older facility at no cost to the urban mission. In Fort Wayne, Indiana, a church in the suburbs has walked arm-in-arm with core church leaders to create a strong development culture of indigenous leaders. The two churches break bread in each other’s homes, meet together for fellowship in the urban mission church, and plan their annual sermon calendar together, exchanging pulpits in three locations. Members of the suburban church have sold their homes and moved into the community of the urban mission church. In August 2019, the lead pastor of the urban church will also be the lead pastor of a multisite, multi-ethnic congregation, including in-ear translation for a Spanish church!
Look at the urban mission fields. Are they ripe? Yes, and God wants to use you to walk arm-in-arm to develop indigenous leaders who will advance God’s kingdom to the uttermost parts of the earth.
The harvest is ripe among our urban mission fields today! Visit to learn more, build relationships with urban mission churches, discover opportunities to participate in work camps, fund housing for homeless families, provide for feeding stations for the hungry, help underwrite summer camp programs for children, and much more. Your prayerful and financial support are critical. Thank you!
