I hope you enjoy this conversation with Wendell Henckel. He is a hidden treasure, an unassuming man with vast knowledge and a deep and soft presence. It was truly a delight to talk with him, exploring consciousness, enlightenment and meditation. Though not well known, he is an incredible resource for anyone interested in meditation or enlightenment. I feel very supportive of him and his work. Check out his unique meditation offerings on his website. Enjoy!
Podcast: Download (Duration: 1:06:19 — 60.7MB) | Embed
Subscribe: Apple Podcasts | RSS
I felt so validated no matter what level I’m at! Thank you, thank you, thank you.
I just wanted to say how much I enjoyed listening to Henckel.
He makes the understanding of the creation and the Absolute astonishing clear…just the bare bones.
The silence was palable….beautiful…I felt I was touching my true nature.
Thankyou.
A very honest interview. Thank you.
I liked it very much. However I find myself longing to hear him talk about these ideas in the context of the system of yoga. He mentioned this very briefIy in the talk and it had such a strong resonance for me. I hope this may be possible in the future?
Very inspiring. It was a beautiful lift for me. I feel most fortunate to have the chance to hear this again and again. A very special thing to speak so clearly of something so great and mystical – thank you for sharing.
I have studied with henckel my dearest teacher, for many years.
The truth of the teaching is in the way it is manifested in real life.
Myteacher does not need to make himself known.
He is an example of everything he teaches , compassion ,clarity,and pure being.
I feel blessed to be in his healing presence, and in a space of true
understanding and deep presence.
with gratitude and respect
rev shelly vickers pertz interfaith minister, healer , visionary artist and poet london 2012
I have enjoyed the pod cast in it’s considered and honest delivery, to Henkel’s journey of his enlightenment.
I am blessed to be a part of his group in which he so generously shares and teaches what he knows. I feel I have grown and changed since joining it and like so often happens other things appear to happen, like books that were given to me, aiding the continuing process.
I have now listen to it a second time and I am sure I will do so again in the future. there is so much more I heard the second time than the first time round. Thank you Henkel!
17June 12
It’s beautiful and inspiring. Thank you so much for sharing it.
It was great to feel reconnected to a familiar voice.
A guide to my search for knowing the real me ,
a gift to my karma .
Lenore
It has to permanent, I agree
[…] out Ryan’s interview with Henckel on the Lonely Guru […]
[…] out Ryan’s interview with Henckel on the Lonely Guru podcast […]
Just hearing Mr. Henckel ignites that desire to pursue this work. He is truly a remarkable and inspirational man.