na its a gallery site, there are thumbnails and stuff
good link tho, i will be using that for other things :) tyvm
Type: Posts; User: chopficaro; Keyword(s):
na its a gallery site, there are thumbnails and stuff
good link tho, i will be using that for other things :) tyvm
im trying to make an art gallery site for my sister with free hosting, i need upload_max_filesize to be at least 3mb
ive tried many free hosting services and they are all 1.5mb
ive tried changing...
lol ok sorry dont want to get u guys in trouble
thats fine i have backups of everything, if they do that ill just try to find another hosting service
it wont even be noticeable my sister has like 100 pieces of art she wants to show, and it will...
i dont think the folder public_html exists actually
im trying to make an art gallery site for my sister with free hosting, i need upload_max_filesize to be at least 3m
ive tried many free hosting services and they are all 1.5m
ive tried what these...
<?php
phpinfo();
?>
ok but suppose i override these values with an htaccess file or a second php.ini file. which values will be output
ok well can i at least view the values in php.ini?
how do i enable exec() in php.ini? where is php.ini? cant find it in the directories in my site.
i installed the most popular chat mod on smf forums called ajax chat. i am certain i did everything correctly.
but when i try to test it i get a 403 on byethost. ive also had problems with phpbb...
i have a question about how relative links work
i went to a particular website and saw that i was 2 subdirectories deep, that is i was at
then i looked at the source...
i thought i fixed that before i posted. i made sure it was fixed but still couldnt get it to work untill i used file_get_constants without a directory, so i guess i wont organize the samples into...
this:
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "">
<html xmlns="" xml:lang="en"...
ty got it lol, ive been reuploading the entire site to deal with this until now lol-
if i set the cache to clear when closing then i can test my pages and be sure that im not testing a previous version? what is the variable called in about:config?
look at all the stuff i turned off and firefox is still caching:
thanks, ill try dreamweaver
ive got a resume web site and i want to let my viewers click on a link to a particular code sample of mine to read. ive got .as files, .cpp files, .h files, .js files, ,php files, u name it, but...
is there some software out there that would allow me to view all documents and folders at a web address?
ty! works great!
hmmm well i just found out that i could use the div tag and set the overflow to scroll, but that gets rid of my formatting, i like how the div tag fits though. so how do i keep my formatting? maybe...
i want to make a block of text with scroll bars. so i used the pre tag. but all browsers automatically generate a line break before the pre tag of the same size as the font size inside the pre tag....
i got it working in firefox but not IE, it just pretends to load forever
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "">
<html...
this isnt working, as soon as i change width and height to percents instead of pixels nothing appears
also it would be nice if i could change the width based on the height instead of window width...