Researchs
Researchs News
General information
One of the objectives that promotes the corporate philosophy of the National University Pedro Henríquez Ureña is the research activity. For these purposes, the Office of the Vice President for Postgraduate Studies, Research and International Affairs is responsible for the guidelines of the Institution’s research policy, as well as promoting research development in the different fields of knowledge.
RECENT RESEARCHS
• Cientificas y Tecnológicas registradas en SCOPUS – 2008
• Cientificas y Tecnológicas SCOPUS – No Registradas
Links of interest
Technological innovation and Scientific Researchs week UNPHU 2016
Researchers
Researches
El Dr. Esteban Prieto Vicioso_1<<_2<<
Dr. Daisy Acosta is a physician and graduate in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, of the Pedro Henríquez Ureña National University (UNPHU), with a specialization in general psychiatry in Saint Francis General Hospital in the city of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States, and with additional qualifications in geriatric psychiatry and Forensic Psychiatry. She is certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology in the specialty of Psychiatry and in both sub-specialties of Geriatric and Forensic Psychiatry.
Dr. Arias holds a 1971 Bachelor´s Degree in Chemistry from the Santo Domingo Autonomous University, Dominican Republic, as well as a 1980 Doctorate in Chemistry from the University of Salamanca, Spain. Her thesis was on the “Chemical Components of Thapsia villosa L (Helmanticina)”.
Lic. Moisés Álvarez graduated with a degree in Physics with honors from the Pedro Henríquez Ureña National University (UNPHU). As National Coordinator, he was in charge of a project in the Ministry for the Environment and Natural Resources (MIMARENA) and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) for the elimination of substances affecting the ozone layer.
Prominent Dominican pediatrician and graduate cum laude of the School of Medicine of the Pedro Henríquez Ureña National University (1981), and our Past Dean of the Faculty of Health Sciences (2004-2011) in the Dominican Republic. Specialized in General Pediatrics in the University of Valencia, Spain (1985-1987). Specialized in Hepatologic Gastroenterology and Child Nutrition at the same University and in the Madrid Autonomous University (1987-1989). Graduate work in Clinical Nutrition and Pediatric Dietetics, Universities of Valencia and Granada (1990). Certified by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (USA, 1981) and MIR Resident Medical Intern (Spain 1989).
Born on 24 July 1954 in The Netherlands. Studied chemistry and biology in the Catholic University of Nijmegen 1972-1979, Netherlands, where he graduated in Organic Chemistry (Synthesis of natural products) and Pharmaco-chemistry (Molecular Pharmacology and Psychopharmacology).
Studies Pharmacology in the University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands 1979-1980 (took the boards in Practice and theory of prescriptions; Identification and quality control of medications).Took a Doctorate in Pharmacognosy (Ph. D.), (Medicinal Plans of the Andean Southern Peru), Catholic University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands, 1994.
Dr. Concepción began his teaching career in the Pedro Henríquez Ureña National University (UNPHU) in the School of Chemistry, and has been recognized as Professor Emeritus. He obtained a BS and Ph.D. from the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras campus, with a major in Organic Physical Chemistry in the study of dynamic systems of ionic pairs, and did Post-Doctoral work in the University of Syracuse, New York, United States.
He is a member of the Academy of Sciences of the Dominican Republic. His current field of research is neuroscience. He has published over three hundred works in scientific and educational magazines, and in widely circulated newspapers with his column “Matters of Quality”. He has also given conferences in universities, congresses, and managerial activities around the world. He has two books: “Simplemente Calidad” (in its third edition), and “ Wellbeing, the Unique Journey to Success”.
Ph.D UNPHU
Dr. José Rafael Espaillat Muñoz
Dr. Esteban Prieto Vicioso
Dr. Jesús Gilberto Concepción y García
Dr. José Felipe Guillén Sarita
Dr. Carolus María Franciscus Bernadus
Dr. Gregorio García Lagombra
Dr. José Alfredo Choque López
Dr. Carlos Antonio Sanlley Pagán
Dr. Leonardo Conde Rodríguez
Dr. Luisa María Valdez Lorenzo
Dra. Alicia Arias de Rodríguez
Dr. Luis Eduardo Dominguez Despradel
Dr. Ramón Ovidio Sánchez Peña
Dr. Porfirio Hernández Quezada
Dr. Rolando Forastieri Sanabia
Dr. Antonio María Urías Inocencio
Dr. Heidi González Pimentel
Dr. Henry Modesto Meran Gil
Dra. Linda María Roca Pezzoti
Dra. Lesbia Sosa Fernández