Tanden, Holtz-Eakin: Health care ruling won't be the end
By: Jennifer Haberkorn
June 20, 2012 11:29 PM EST
If there’s one thing that opponents and supporters of President Barack Obama’s health care law can agree on, it’s that not even the Supreme Court will put to rest the law’s deep-seated controversy.
And that could fire up voters between now and Election Day.
A ruling against the health law would energize Democratic voters in the 2012 election, says one prominent backer. And a ruling in favor of it — even if that means at least one Republican-appointed justice upholds it — won’t make its critics suddenly find it politically palatable, said one of the law’s leading foes.
“If the Supreme Court actually overturns the Affordable Care Act, I think that will get Democrats overall pretty engaged in trying to determine who the next justices are in the Supreme Court,” said Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American Progress, who previously worked on health reform in the Obama administration.
“[It] will make the Supreme Court a much more political issue coming on top of Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, Bush v. Gore, and now the Affordable Care Act where the Supreme Court is really grasping arguments that have been considered way out of the mainstream in just the last few years,” Tanden said in an interview for the POLITICO video series “SCOTUS & Health Care: The Final Countdown.”
But a ruling upholding the law isn’t going to persuade its opponents to back down, either, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum, said in a separate interview for the video series. Republicans already have made clear they see it as a defining theme of the fall campaign.
“The law didn’t take on the rising costs, that [is..] its fundamental flaw, and many of its features are simply not going to be politically palatable,” said Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
Holtz-Eakin said the law’s Independent Payment Advisory Board for Medicare is unpopular among Republicans and many Democrats. He doesn’t like how the exchanges and subsidies are designed and expects that approach would lead to fewer employers offering health coverage.
“The policy has to change and the political debate will go on,” he predicted.
If the Supreme Court strikes the entire law this month, attention will turn to Capitol Hill, where Republicans have said they would “replace” the law with smaller incremental bills. And that’s just fine with Holtz-Eakin.
“[If] you go back to 2009 at the beginning of this debate, there was a consensus among conservatives, liberals, progressives — whatever label you wanted to attach— that we had problems in access to insurance, but more importantly at the rising cost of health care,” Holtz-Eakin said. “The real flaw with this law is it did not address the health care cost problem. Republicans will be very serious about taking that on.”.
© 2015 POLITICO LLC