01-04-2017 | Eye-Opener | Uitgave 2/2017 Open Access
Applying occupational and organizational psychology theory to entrustment decision-making about trainees in health care: a conceptual model
- Tijdschrift:
- Perspectives on Medical Education > Uitgave 2/2017
Belangrijke opmerkingen
The first two authors should be regarded as joint first authors.
Editor’s Note: Commentary by: M. Govaerts doi:10.1007/s40037-017-0337-1.‐‐‐
In 1995, Mayer et al. [ 28] addressed heightened interest in understanding trust in occupational settings, which was triggered by increasing workforce diversity and the emergence of self-directed working teams. They developed a conceptual model of trust (Fig. 1), characterizing how it develops among two parties: a trusting party, called trustor and a party to be trusted, called trustee. This model was then applied to examining the development of employees’ trust in their managers, i. e. upward in hierarchy [ 30‐ 32]. In comparison, in medical education the primary interest lies in how the supervising physician entrusts a trainee, i. e., downward in hierarchy. However, Mayer et al.’s model appears to be applicable to trust processes independently of hierarchy [ 32] and provides the opportunity to better understand the supervisor’s decision to entrust a trainee.
×
Four categories of factors have been identified in a range of studies to influence entrustment decision-making: trainee characteristics, supervisor characteristics, characteristics of the task at hand and contextual factors [ 23‐ 25, 36]. In addition, the relationship between the supervisor and the trainee has been identified as an important category [ 6, 27]. These studies provide a long list of factors in each category, summarized in an overview table by ten Cate et al. [ 2]. Fig. 2 illustrates how the findings of ten Cate et al. may be integrated with the trust models developed by Mayer et al. [ 28] and Cianciolo et al. [ 29] in a unified conceptual model of the entrustment decision-making process.
Fig. 2
Conceptual framework of the entrustment decision-making process
×.
Funding
Stiftung Mercator (independent private foundation); European Union’s Seventh Framework Programme for research, technological development and demonstration, under grant agreement 619349 (WATCHME.