Search
I definitely understand why he did it, now that we've talked. Ultimately I think it was the honorable thing to do. He could have come down to the studio and given a real halfhearted performance. Then we would have been in real trouble. But I think it was cool of him to recognize that he just didn't have the passion for the band anymore and couldn't deliver. It was probably a difficult thing for him to do."
Still, with the new lineup and the acclaim for Francis Mark's acclaimed side project Biology, the group feels like they have moved in a dramatically different direction:
Part of me is hoping that some people can look at this as a new band and not draw too many comparisons between this record and the past three, because I feel like it's kind of a new beginning,.
ooh burn!
lol frats
post of the day.
silly, frats only drink lots of beer, smoke weed, and rape girls. coke is reserved for the IV leagues
Stereotyping is cool.
Also, coke is certainly not reserved just for IVY league schools.
seriously. i was never in a frat. hell, i never even graduated from high school...and i still manage to do plenty of coke. quit being so closeminded.
How was what I said close-minded?
i was agreeing with you!
i don't think you need to be a member ivy leauge to enjoy the splendors of doing lines of coke off a hooker's ass at 5:30 in the morning. the idea that i can't comb over and over the same spot looking for the last imaginary flake of blow because of my education is just another form of classism.
Haha, gotcha. Well said. I thought you were responding to my comment before.
I can tell by the misspelling of "quite" that you didn't graduate high school. That has nothing to do with stereotyping or being close minded. Most frat guys don't do coke, but they were smart enough to get into college. People who do coke are morons.
dust the sand off your taint and learn to take a joke, Sir Wordsworth McSpellcheck.
i lol'ed
4 people care
oh sirens, always giving bands too much credit.
only 2 people care about your post, so the band is still cooler than you
you
stupid
shit
pwnt
Excellent i'm up for another round of weak ass mtv emo.
MTV emo? Have ever listened to From Autumn To Ashes? You might want to before making silly-ass comments like this.
oh i'm sorry what is it, weak ass mtv metalcore.
What's MTV metalcore and MTV emo? Is that somehow different than just plain old metalcore and emo? Is that some new category I don't know about?
Nope Mtv metalcore is the same as metalcore, but what i'm trying to say is they hoar themselves out on tv constantly. As for MTV emo and "plain old emo" totally different things, rites of spring, real emo, My chemical Romace, not.
genuis...not!
I'm a firm believer that the only good piece of music this band has ever produced was that song Short Stories With Tragic Endings.
Correction:
That song, when listened in place of the whole album, is okay, because the rest of the album (and indeed, the entire catalogue from these douches) but if you were to listen to that song on its own, you would agree that it's shit.
Band is just a PTW wannabe.
says the lonely board poster
"?
true, line ups change all the time, but when it first happened, it was played out like some big soap opera. but everything is resolved now and the story is straight
Please leave your personal opinions out of this as I am only curious......is he still doing the drum duties as well? Or is somebody else taking that position so he can front?
new drummer
yeah, new drummer but he recorded all the drums on the new album right?
Yes.
...)
this site is full of sad dumb cunts.