The Korea Deal: Advantage U.S. By Howard Diamond; April 17 1997; Page A23 The Washington Post "Victor Gilinsky and Henry Sokolski ["Korea: How Long Do We Live With Blackmail?," op-ed, March 27] claim the 1994 U.S.-North Korean Agreed Framework has been reinterpreted to Pyongyang's advantage. This puzzling judgment is made possible only by mischaracterizing the significant progress to date and avoiding any mention of the benefits." U.S., S. Korea await North's answer on peace talks S.Korea to decide on food aid to N.Korea soon "Crucial talks open Wednesday on whether famine-threatened North Korea is prepared to make a serious stab at peace with its prosperous democratic arch-rival in the south. U.S. officials are cautiously optimistic Pyongyang will respond positively to Washington's year-old joint proposal with South Korea for four-party peace talks that would finally close the books on the 1950-53 Korean War. But while they hope for a direct answer Wednesday, U.S. negotiators are prepared for marathon discussions that may not produce a conclusive reply until Friday." Meeting on Korea opens on positive note "NEW YORK (April 16, 1997 12:43 p.m. EDT) - North Korea went into a crucial meeting on Korean peninsula peace efforts on Wednesday on a positive note, suggesting it would produce "good results."" Iran long-range missile slated for 2000 by STEVE RODAN The Jeruslaem Post 8 Nisan 5757 [Tuesday, April 15, 1997 ] JERUSALEM (April 15) - Israel plans to raise Russian aid to Iran's medium-range ballistic missile project during this week's visit by Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Viktor Posuvaliuk.... The officials said that despite numerous Israeli appeals, Russia is continuing to provide massive aid to Iran's missile project. They said Teheran is developing a missile, with a range of up to 1,500 kilometers ... The officials said Russia was invited to help Iran with its ballistic missile, after North Korea was apparently unable to supply its Nodung I missile." Businessman Nahum Manbar missing The Jeruslaem Post 8 Nisan 5757 [Tuesday, April 15, 1997 ] "JERUSALEM (April 15) - An Israeli businessman with alleged links to illegal trading with Iran has been missing in Europe since a basketball game in Greece last month. There has been no contact with missing Nahum Manbar for the past three weeks.... Manbar had been allegedly connected with breaking the arms embargo on Iran and had also sold chemical weapons components to China. These components, it was alleged, had made their way to Iran." Iraqi wants to meet UN arms expectations this year A senior Iraqi official said Wednesday his government was determined to comply with U.N. disarmament requirements this year despite what he considered unfair criticisms from weapons inspectors. Riyadh al-Qaysi, undersecretary in Iraq's foreign ministry, spoke to Security Council members on the latest report from the U.N. Special Commission in charge of ridding Iraq of dangerous weapons. "What we know is that we should complete, finalize work on our commitments and we are determined to do so this year and then we see how the situation develops," he said. Russia: Analysis From Washington--Moscow, Tehran, And Berlin By Paul Goble Washington, 14 April 1997 (RFE/RL) Yeltsin's meeting with the Iranian parliamentarian was more than simply "an opportunity to spite" the West over NATO as one Moscow publication suggested. It provided Yeltsin with an opportunity to cement a relationship that has already brought him and Moscow certain very real benefits. Tehran is a major purchaser of Russian military equipment and nuclear technology. RUSSIA OPPOSES ANY FORMS OF TERRORISM, BELIEVES THAT ISOLATION OF MIDEASTERN AND FAR EASTERN STATES CAN RADICALIZE THEM STILL FURTHER BADEN-BADEN, APRIL 17, RIA NOVOSTI CORRESPONDENT NATALIA SALNIKOVA -