Azarmehr's piece on Gary Sick, and the Islamic Republic's recent drug shortage fiasco that they're trying to blame on the sanctions. Continue reading »
For a democratic secular Iran. For peace and prosperity in the Middle East.: Gary Sick, A sick Leftover from Carter's Administration
- Views: 1270
faraway
I read this great piece a while back.
It's stunning how people like Gary sick and Daniel pipes are allowed to run amok like rabid dogs to decide the fate of our country.
Gary sick did meddle in the manufactured Devolution of 1979. He just has a knack to be wrong about Iran all the time.
parham
"Gary sick ... just has a knack to be wrong about Iran all the time."
That is so true. I met him in 1985, I asked him why he thought the US media had not said anything about the recent scattered demonstrations that had taken place in Tehran in favor of Bakhtiar (there had been a demo in support of Bakhtiar in Tehran that year whereby a good number of people had turned on their car lights during the day to show their backing). His answer was that he didn't think the Reagan administration would have stopped any such news from being published had they been able to anyway, and that in any case, he didn't think the Regan admin. had any sympathy for the IR, neither were they trying to establish any inroad into the Iranian establishment.
Just a few months later, the whole Iran-Contra affair broke out and it became clear that Robert McFarlane (Reagan's National Security adviser who actually replaced Gary Sick himself at that position after Reagan was elected) had traveled to Iran with presents for the ayatollahs in order to establish a "connection"!
Sick actually even wrote a book about the whole thing afterwards and became a proponent of establishment of ties between the US and the Islamic Republic thereafter! So indeed, he has practically always been wrong about his very subject matter...
P_J. – An Iranian!
These people, the so called” experts”, are intentionally myopic in order to expand their influence/hegemony throughout the world. Using this gimmickry enables them to rationalize and justify their intended robbery, spearheaded by the so called “experts”.
We saw that in 1953 coup against Mossadegh, and I am sure that some IDIOT(s) like the mentioned duo had advised them, the US government, against having the democratic Iran, and had proposed the establishment of a vicious bloody dictator and the SAVAK as its secret police, or henchman, turning Iran into a police state for the next 24 years, and ransacking our wealth.
That outrages behavior resulted in culminating the roots of hatred and revolution and its reverberation brought us another dark and vicious, this time, group of religious monsters!
PS: “In this world there is no room for the WEAK” a German saying!
faraway
Dear Parham: I think the overarching goal of the democratic faction of the CIA/Pentagon/Realists/Hawks, has been to liberalize the secular monarchies in Islamic countries, regardless of Presidents. The policy hopes that the Islamists will learn how to navigate the democratic process without resorting to terrorism. So far, their experiment in Iran has failed and has not produced the results intended either for the US or Iran. However, in the long run, it may prove to be actually the right course for changing these islamist societies from bottom up where the masses realize that Islam or Islamists in power are incapable of governing their country or improving their lives or the lives of their children; as it is happening in Iran right now....just my 2 cents.
amirparvizforsecularmonarchy – I Love Waterfalls and Find One of the most humorous things in the world; is the notion that Americans are a greater force for good & more civilized than Nazi's, Mullahs and Communists.
You are wrong on the USA's aims and the reasons for it. This is how they portray their own actions to deceive the public, the USA's game is to hide their own real agenda so no one can read their hand and they can continue down their path. After seeing your optimistic comment I know for sure you don't see the picture at all from a scientific stand point. If the USA cared for the ground up approach they would be helping that and they are not.
parham
Sure, why not. I don't rally know if that is the case --pertaining to hawks, I think they're more inclined to the "bombing into democracy" doctrine-- but I could be wrong.
faraway
I meant the hawks in the democratic party and the realists (Gates is one of them) in the Republican party.
akaDarya – With life as short as a half-taken breath, don't plant anything but love. - Rumi
Parham, What do you think about Daneil Pipe?
parham
Unfortunately, I don't know enough about him to be able to give an opinion.
akaDarya – With life as short as a half-taken breath, don't plant anything but love. - Rumi
Perhaps this was a case in 80s but these days one does not need to meet someone in person to get to know him or her ....
Just google Daniel Pipe !
You can also google Daniel Pipe and Gary Sick together in one inquiry...and then Let your INDEPENDENT mind goes wild!
I would not be talking about Gary Stick now without talking about Daneil Pipe !
parham
Well I did have the intention of doing so, just in time though.
Exactly & Well Said ...
"It's stunning how people like Gary sick and Daniel pipes are allowed to run amok like rabid dogs to decide the fate of our country. "
akaDarya – With life as short as a half-taken breath, don't plant anything but love. - Rumi
There is a war going on between Daneil Pipe and Gary Sick.