Ottawa orders CN, CP to move grain or face fine
Federal government says railways must each move at least 500,000 tonnes of Prairie grain a week.
A
A
Share via Email
Ken Faught / TORONTO STAR FILE PHOTO
Grain elevators across the Prairies are jammed with the 2013 bumper crop. Ships heading for export markets are sitting empty at West Coast ports waiting for the grain to arrive.
Liberal MP Ralph Goodale says the government isn't doing enough to help move grain from Saskatchewan producers.
With millions of tonnes of grain stuck on the Canadian Prairies, the federal government is taking the rare step of ordering the railways to get the bumper crop moving or face stiff fines.
In Winnipeg, Transport Minister Lisa Raitt announced that a cabinet order issued Friday requires Canadian National Railway and Canadian Pacific to each move at least 500,000 tonnes of grain, or 5,500 rail cars, a week.
If the railways don’t comply, they could face fines of up to $100,000 a day.
“This issue affects more than just farmers, it affects trade and Canada’s ability to supply our markets around the world,” said Raitt, who was accompanied by Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz.
MORE ON THESTAR.COM
The order, good for 90 days, is renewable. It takes effect immediately, but the railways have four weeks to ramp up to the required levels.
“Canadian Pacific is disappointed with this unfortunate order-in-council,” said CP spokesman Ed Greenberg, arguing the move only raises more questions.
It “only focuses on the railways and not the entire supply chain,” he said in an email, noting that moving grain from farm to port is a complex system that needs to operate around the clock.
Canadian National spokesman Jim Feeny said the railway will do its part to move the grain, but emphasized co-operation is needed from grain growers and terminal staff, including a strong sales effort for grain shipments made out of Thunder Bay when Great Lakes shipping reopens in the spring.
“The federal government wants to play a role here,” Feeny said. “We’re going to need the federal government to encourage stakeholders, the farmers, the grain companies, the railways to act in a collaborative manner, as opposed to accusation and finger pointing.”
CN says it had already told the federal government that as soon as warmer weather arrives, it would ramp up to 5,500 carloads a week.
The move comes after farmers in Western Canada have complained that despite their best year ever, they can’t get their crops to market because the railways aren’t moving the grain. Further, farmers have complained that they are losing money as prices fall.
The 2013 yield was about 76 million tonnes — everything from wheat and canola to barley and lentils — up 33 per cent from 2012.
Grain elevators are jammed and individual farmers’ bins are full. Forty-three ships heading for export markets are sitting empty at West Coast ports waiting for the grain to arrive.
The railways say the extended, bitterly cold winter has forced them to slow operations, running short rail cars just to keep goods moving.
Over the past three months on the Prairies, there have been 49 days of temperatures below minus 25C, nearly double the usual average of 25 days.
In a full-page advertisement published Thursday in two national newspapers, CP CEO Hunter Harrison acknowledged service levels haven’t been met, but added winter is a factor.
“When the weather is this cold, we must take steps such as reducing train lengths to continue to move freight and ensure the safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate,” Harrison said.
While some groups have urged the railways to add more cars just to get the grain moving, Harrison said that would just create a bigger logjam.
“It is like adding more cars to a highway at rush hour — everything moves that much slower,” he said.
Wade Sobkowich, executive director of the Western Grain Elevator Association, which represents the grain companies, said during the best delivery week last fall, only 9,300 rail cars of grain moved.
“This will hold the rail companies accountable,” said Sobkowich, but warned that the backlog is so great, even at the government-ordered pace, one-third of the crop won’t get moved by late July, just as next year’s crop starts coming in.
“We’re so deep into this problem,” he said. “It doesn’t give enough capacity to move all of the grain.”
Sobkowich also questions whether the railway can put the blame on the cold weather, noting railways were told of the bumper crop in September.
“It’s like building a house without insulation and blaming winter when you are cold,” he said.
Ritz has promised that the government will introduce legislation to address more regulation in grain shipping.
CN’s Feeny argued more regulation is not needed, and any such move “is ill advised and counter productive,” because more regulation would lead to an “adversarial relationship within the supply chain at a time when collaboration is.