Manufacturer : Filorga
Active Substance(s) : Hyaluronic acid
Strength : 25mg/ml, 3mg/ml
Pack Size : 2-1.2ml prefilled syringes
Accessories : Package insert, 4-25G 1/2” needles, 4 traceability labels
Filorga Art Filler Volume is a facial volumizing, contouring, and rehydrating injectable dermal filler. This formula is crafted with Tri-Hyal technology, a ground-breaking anti-aging concept that combines 3 types of cross-linked hyaluronic acid for ultimate correction.
You can order Filorga Art Filler Volume at wholesale prices from Doctormedica online. You can also call, fax, or email us to place an order today. For detailed information on our ordering and shipping processes, visit our website.
Each box of Filorga Art Filler Volume contains 2 pre-filled syringes, 4-25G1” sterile single-use needles, a package insert, and 4 traceability labels.
The unique texture of this dermal filler enables it to effectively volumize, hydrate, and contour facial skin, eliminating fine lines for a smooth, beautifully sculpted look. Its specialized form of hyaluronic acid ensures that it improves both the appearance and the quality of treated skin, leaving patients with incredible, long-lasting results. It has also been proven to stimulate the production of collagen and elastin, increasing overall skin health.
This formula contains Tri-hyal hyaluronic acid, giving it added smoothing potential. This solution also contains about 0.3% licodaine, a local anesthetic.
Filorga Art Filler Volume is made of 3 different forms of hyaluronic acid, each of which has a unique molecular weight. This allows it to steadily and evenly volumize the skin, as well as effectively sculpt and contour the face.
Hyaluronic acid occurs naturally in the body, where it nourishes skin by helping it to retain moisture. However, throughout the aging process, this natural supply is depleted. This causes the skin to become dry, wrinkled, and sallow. Luckily, by injecting hyaluronic acid back into aging skin, Filorga Art Filler Volume plumps and hydrates at a cellular level, filling out the facial features.
Only qualified medical professionals may perform this treatment. Prior to administration, disinfect the area to be treated and assemble the syringe following proper aseptic guidelines. Depending on the area to be treated, the proper injection technique and amount of filler to be used will vary based on practitioner preference. After injection, the treated region should be massaged to ensure uniform distribution of the product.
Each treatment session with Filorga Art Filler Volume will take between 30 minutes and 1 hour to complete, depending on the severity of correction required.
This dermal filler can be used to increase facial volume and add density to skin, as well as for sculpting the facial features. Due to the hydrating properties of hyaluronic acid, it also moisturizes skin at the cellular level.
Filorga Art Filler Volume with Lidocaine is ideal for use on the face.
Filorgas Art Filler Volume has exceptional durability. At 9 months after the initial treatment, a top-up treatment should be administered to extend the implant’s life to 18 months. Please note that results may vary from patient to patient based on their age, health, and metabolism.
By ordering Art Filler Volume online directly from Doctormedica, you may take advantage of our wholesale prices to ensure that your patients get the results they desire—at the lowest possible price point. This dermal filler will rehydrate their skin, add natural-looking volume, and sculpt the face, leaving patients’ features looking not only plump and beautifully defined, but moisturized and healthy.
This filler is intended for patients who are experiencing noticeable signs of aging, with sagging and general volume loss occurring in their cheeks and other facial areas.
Certain patients should not use this filler, despite its generally high safety profile. These include pregnant and breastfeeding women; individuals with autoimmune or bleeding disorders; patients with a hypersensitivity to any of the ingredients in this formulation; and patients who are prone to keloid scarring.
After injection, many patients experience some mild swelling, bruising, redness, and irritation at the treatment site. However, these side effects rarely escalate, and genuinely disappear within days. In rare cases, patients may experience more serious adverse reactions, such as hypersensitivity, granuloma formation, and skin necrosis. If these issues occur, immediate medical attention is required. To ensure your patients’ safety, please consult the included product leaflet for more information on potential complications, contraindications, and warnings associated with this treatment.
Reviews are written by customers who have made verified purchases of this product. Log in to post your comment!