Town Office Hours
Mon-Fri
7:30 am-4:30 pm
Volunteer with the Town
On the Bay - Join us on May 19 and June 2 to plan for the future of Malletts Bay village. Colchester has long envisioned transforming the West Lakeshore Drive neighborhood into a recreation and tourism oriented village center on Mallets Bay, but the lack of infrastructure has stymied those plans for decades. With efforts to address infrastructure needs moving forward, the town will be updating the zoning and development standards for the Malletts Bay village area. Please attend one or both of these sessions to help refine our vision for the future of Malletts Bay village. Read more info about the sessions here (PDF format)
Seasonal Grounds Maintenance - The Parks & Recreation Department is hiring for a seasonal grounds maintenance position. Click here for more information
Mill Pond Road Bridge Construction - The Vermont Agency of Transportation will be replacing the Mill Pond Road Bridge for the Town this summer. Consequently, Mill Pond Road will be completely closed at the bridge to through traffic beginning April 13 and reopening at the end of October. Detour signs will be erected to direct motorists around the work zone. Questions can be directed to the Town of Colchester Public Works Department at (802) 264-5620 or rparry@colchestervt.gov. We thank you for your patience during the completion of this important project.
Video Showcases - LCATV has put together a series of videos of the showcases put on by a number of the town's departments in 2014 and 2015. If you are not quite sure which department does what, or would just like to know more about how each functions, take a look. The remaining departments are scheduled to have their showcases in the middle of 2015. Watch them here.
Colchester Guide - We'd like to announce the new Resident and Visitor's Guide for the town, entitled "Colchester, The Heart of Lake Champlain." It is meant for residents both new and old, as well as those who are just visiting. It includes information on the many resources and attractions within the town, town departments and services, and a list of businesses by category. You can read the full guide here (PDF format).
Town Videos - The Economic Development Department worked with CGI Communications to produce a series of four short videos about the town. The videos cover a range of topics. Click on one to watch the video (opens in a new window).
Colchester is the fourth largest community in Vermont with over 17,000 residents. Several important businesses and organizations call our town home: St. Michael's College, Vermont PBS, Vermont Public Radio, and the Vermont Youth Orchestra. We are located on the shores of Malletts Bay (part of beautiful Lake Champlain), which offers access to a range of activities on the lake, including boating, swimming and fishing. Colchester has many parks that invite you to hike, play tennis, enjoy a summer concert or simply relax.
Burlington, a cosmopolitan and collegiate center for the Champlain Valley region, is only minutes away to the south. To the east, the verdant slopes of the Green Mountains beckon to hikers, hunters, skiers and nature lovers. Situated along the Interstate 89 corridor, minutes from Burlington International Airport, rail and bus stations, Colchester offers convenient transportation links. (Photo courtesy of Jeff Lefebvre)
Come visit us and discover all that we have to offer!