WIPO SMEs Newsletter June
Historic Treaty Adopted, Boosts Access to Books for Visually Impaired Persons Worldwide
International negotiators meeting under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) adopted on June 27, 2013, owners..
World’s Five Largest Intellectual Property Offices (IP5) Meet in Silicon Valley. Additionally, the heads stressed the need to advance harmonization of substantive and procedural patent law. To this end, the heads reviewed the progress in the work of the IP5 Patent Harmonization Experts Panel, and considered next steps.
Europe and China agree to use same patent classification system (CPC)
The EPO and the State Intellectual Property Office of the P.R.C. (SIPO) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to enhance their cooperation in the area of patent classification. Within the terms of.
USPTO and KIPO Announce Launch of Cooperative Patent Classification System Pilot
The U.S. Department of Commerce’s United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and the
Korean Intellectual Property Office (KIPO) announced the launch of a new pilot in which KIPO will
classify some of its patent documents using the
Cooperative
Patent Classification system (CPC), a new classification system jointly managed by the USPTO
and the European Patent Office (EPO). KIPO is the first foreign patent office to engage with the
USPTO and EPO in this new system, which debuted on
January 1, 2013.
The pilot between KIPO and the USPTO marks a major first step towards KIPO classifying its patent collection using the CPC. For the pilot, KIPO will apply the CPC classification to patent documents in particular technologies, namely, technologies for which filings have been especially active at KIPO. KIPO will work together with the USPTO to identify these technologies.
International
Patents Guide
This application guide is designed to help you prepare and file an international patent application.
IP joint ownership
This fact sheet is aiming to highlight the most essential IP issues to be addressed when handling jointly owned assets in contractual arrangements, in order to avoid the joint ownership pitfalls. By ensuring that the ownership of the generated IP, and the related responsibility for its protection and defense, are correctly allocated, collaborative projects have more chance to be efficiently implemented and litigation between partners to be avoided.
Patent Assertion and U.S. Innovation
This report was prepared by the U.S. President’s Council of Economic Advisers, the National Economic Council, and the Office of Science & Technology Policy. The USPTO is going to implement a five-step plan in an effort to thwart patent trolls.
International Patent Strategies for Biopharmaceutical SMEs in Canada.
Publicly Funded Research for SMEs: Is it worth trying?.
Forthcoming Events