Blogging is one of the easiest ways to share information about your company and increase its presence online. Unfortunately, the thought of blogging every day, or even a few times a week, is daunting for most people, especially executives in charge. They fear saying the wrong thing, or writing the wrong thing or simply doing the wrong thing online and leaving their company or themselves open to serious repercussions.
I can’t help but wonder why. Writing a regular blog is no more difficult or dangerous than posting a company newsletter or sending a company wide e-mail. If the person writing the blog has thoughts and can form sentences, they stand a pretty good chance of being to write a decent post every day.
A blog post doesn’t need to be equivalent to ‘War and Peace.’ They don’t need to reveal earth shattering secrets with every post. All they need to do is write something engaging, share some simple information about the company; something relevant to the day-to-day operation of their business. They can share pointed anecdotes, insights or just something interesting that happened recently. This isn’t rocket science folks. It’s blogging.
There are also an assortment of sites devoted to helping hesitant bloggers find their way, learn the ropes and compose a better blog, without having a nervous breakdown.
Your company executives should be blogging. There’s no question about it.
They have a tremendous insights and information to share. Those interested in the company, and even those who work for the company, are interested in the perspectives of the people running it. The audience is there. It’s time to grab it.
Whether your top execs will be sharing company news and information, asking for feedback, positioning themselves as thought leaders, or just blogging because “everyone else is doing it,” getting them started is half the battle. Here are the most common questions (and my answers, based on years of experience working with executives) that execs ask about blogging:
1. How much time is blogging going to take me?
Executives are busy people. They are in high demand and work on many things at once. Everything they choose to participate in comes at the cost of giving up something else. So don’t over-commit.
Start with a reasonable schedule of posts, such as one per month. Block out time in the calendar to make it a real deliverable. If it turns out that blogging more often is doable, then fantastic. It’s better to undersell and over-deliver.
2. For how long am I signing up to do this?
Starting a blog doesn’t necessarily mean that it will continue in perpetuity. The notion of not being able to sustain a blog long term can be a hindrance to getting started in the first place.
Start with an open mind and do it for only as long as it works and feels like a good way to communicate. When contributing to the blog is no longer fun, it’s time to take a break or reset expectations for frequency of posts. Don’t automatically hold to the standard of another blogger who posts more frequently.
But also know that blogs, just like communities, are not an “if I build it, they will come” experience. It takes time, passion, and compelling content to build an audience. So don’t throw in the towel too soon after getting.