When thinking of the composition of his roster, Rangers coach Alain Vigneault reiterated throughout training camp that “money will be a factor.”
In the hard-salary-cap world of the NHL, is has to be, especially for a big-market team like the Rangers with big-money contracts already on the books. But now that the preseason schedule has concluded and the next game is the regular-season opener Thursday night at the Garden against the Islanders, the Rangers are hoping to obtain something they so rarely have had in the recent past: roster flexibility.
The current group of 24 players on the books does include forward Oscar Lindberg, still on injured reserve. It leaves the Rangers with just over $2 million in space under the $73 million salary-cap ceiling. The amount of money they are under the cap each day accrues, so a penny saved today is one that can be used tomorrow — or at the Feb. 28 trade deadline.
“We’re definitely under the cap, but any more that we spend on a player not playing, we can use later on,” Vigneault said after Saturday’s practice at Chelsea Piers, having given his players off Sunday before returning Monday for three days of practice leading into the season opener.
“I’m looking at the big picture,” Vigneault added. “That’s what I’m talking about.”
The Blueshirts have $47.825 million annually locked up in eight players — Rick Nash, Derek Stepan, Chris Kreider, Mats Zuccarello, Marc Staal, Dan Girardi, Ryan McDonagh and Henrik Lundqvist. (And imagine if captain McDonagh wasn’t signed for such a club-friendly $4.7 million per season?) So eight players make up about 68 percent of the club’s salary, and the other 15 players make up the remaining 32 percent. The lopsided nature is true on almost all NHL teams, leaving an onus on young, relatively cheap players to contribute in big roles.
So as much as Vigneault’s ideal world contains a group with eight defensemen and 13 forwards, he knows it might not be the best scenario. If new defensemen Nick Holden and Adam Clendening are both scratched for the opener — which it seems they will be, barring a swing in opinion over the next few days of practice — they are still counting against the cap without playing. The decision then has to be made whether they’re worth keeping around to not play while losing future cap flexibility.
Clendening would have to clear waivers to be sent down to AHL Hartford, while waiving Holden would likely mean the Rangers would lose him for nothing. Yet if 22-year-old Brady Skjei struggles early on, it might not be a short leash or short patience that gets him sent down without waivers, but the cap implications.
The biggest difference from years past is the level of uncertainty that remains with what the Rangers have. They don’t know what to expect from Girardi coming off an awful season, preceded by so many good ones. Staal had a good camp, but is he back to being the aggressive and stout defenseman the team so desperately needs?
There is youth up front in Jimmy Vesey, Pavel Buchnevich and Mika Zibanejad, but how consistent can they be in carrying the offensive weight? Can Brandon Pirri keep scoring like he did in preseason, can Michael Grabner stay healthy and actually help the penalty kill, and can Josh Jooris be a steadying fourth-line center?
There are so many questions that can’t be answered yet, and it does very little good to try to guess what will happen. Instead, Vigneault and the front office are waiting with somewhat bated breath to see exactly what they have.
“I’m thinking that we might, for a short amount of time, until we sort things out, see different players in NHL competition. We might keep 23,” Vigneault said. “But I’m not 100 percent sure yet.”
He’s not 100 percent sure because it’s unknown just what kind of team the Rangers are right now. And when they find out, they want the financial ability to be able to change on the fly.