How Can I find Cash House Buyers?
If a property is not selling it is usually because it is an unmortgageable house that requires cash house buyers. But where do you find these cash house buyers ready to buy your unmortgageable house?
The great news is that Property Saviour are genuine cash house buyers. We are happy to provide you with proof of funds with any cash offer we make for your property.
But first, let us define what makes a property unmortgageable? There are numerous reasons why a property could be unmortgageable. In summary, they could be one or more of these:
- Non-standard construction or build of property that cause lenders to run away because they believe that your property is not a suitable security for the mortgage. These types of properties include pre-fab concrete builds.
- Dilapidated properties with overgrown garden and extensive refurbishment required. A lender looks at whether this property can be habitatable next day. If answer is doubtful, it is not mortgageable and you will need a cash house buyer.
- Issue with legal title such as short leases. Any property that has less than 50 years left is considered suitable only for cash house buyers.
How do you find genuine cash house buyers?
When you are dealing with cash house buyers please understand that they are trying to make a profit by buying your property and selling it on for a profit usually after a refurbishment, and spending time and money on the property. Whether it is an individual in capacity as a cash house buyer or a professional firm of actual cash house buyers, they will be undertaking the risk of financial outlay in the hope that property market will not crash between the period of buying a house and eventually reselling it in 12-18 months’ time.
A genuine cash house buyers’ firm will offer you up to 80% of market value of a residential property. It really depends on risk appetite of cash buyers and location of your residential property. A dwelling in London would attract top price whereas a house in Newcastle will probably achieve a fair market value.
Can cash house buyers really exchange contracts fast?
Without a shadow of doubt, cash house buyers should be able to exchange contracts within a week, and as quick a 2-3 days. If you have a cash house buyer and they are taking their time, they are either not a genuine cash house buyer or they are looking for investors for your property.
If you find yourself in a predicament where you do need services of a true and genuine cash house buyers please call our 24 hours helpline on 0113 320 6700.
Are Property Saviour discreet cash house buyers?
We understand and appreciate the need for your discretion, and thus we are very discreet cash house buyers. Our staff do not drive “we buy houses fast” branded vehicles in fact, you would not able to tell our Directors if you saw them in your local supermarket because we are all real grounded property people with no Ferraris or Aston Martins in sight.
Whether you have inherited a property, selling a going concern or wish not tell the world that you are selling your house, we are the cash house buyers for you.
Please call our 24 hours cash house buyers helpline to see how we can buy your house fast on 0113 320 6700.