/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_image/image/46446430/usa-today-8302189.0.jpg)
:no_upscale()/cdn.vox-cdn.com/assets/4539801/recruiting-big-board.jpg)
Welcome back to the OFD recruiting Big Board for Fighting Irish football.
Another quarterback came off the board recently as (MD) Dwayne Haskins .964 stayed home and committed to the Maryland Terrapins. The Maryland SB Nation blog would like to let you know that Haskins is not the highest rated quarterback to verbal to their school, by mere minuscule percentage points thank you very much.
Is Dwayne Haskins the best Maryland QB recruit of the modern era? Just *barely* not: pic.twitter.com/zGRCxEqafm— Testudo Times (@testudotimes) May 31, 2015
Haskins was the top target on Notre Dame's uncommitted board but never really felt like there was a ton of traction there after the Irish chased Malik Henry, Jacob Eason, Shea Patterson, and others in the early stages of this cycle.
Notre Dame never offered but (TN) Tylin Oden .876 committed to Louisville earlier last week. Several recruitniks have said in the past that he would have committed to the Irish if offered. We'll see if things change in the coming months.
Woody Barrett has a countdown clock as he'll be announcing his school tomorrow. Auburn is believed to have a very big lead and is expected to gain his commitment at 1:30 PM ET on Wednesday.
So where does Notre Dame turn now?
Well, QB coach Mike Sanford was recently down to see (TX) Sam Glaesmann .810 out of Midway H.S. in Waco. As of a couple weeks ago Glaesmann was planning on visiting and camping at Notre Dame this summer. However, late last week he did commit to Rice so we'll see if that changes his plans.
Notre Dame is not giving up on Arizona commit (CA) Khalil Tate .871 even though he's been a verbal to the Wildcats for nearly 3 months. There were Irish coaches on hand to watch him practice last week. It's kind of hard to believe a player from Junipero Serra would flip to Notre Dame stranger things have happened.
ND is coming after Arizona QB commit Kahlil Tate, who talks Irish interest with @GregBiggins pic.twitter.com/FsbhaMynZC— Irish Illustrated (@PeteSampson_) May 22, 2015
Lastly, Notre Dame was back to visit with 2017 prospect (IN) Hunter Johnson .996 to close out the spring evaluation period. Johnson was at the Columbus workout for The Opening over the weekend and really impressed everyone that was in attendance.
The big news for Notre Dame was the scholarship offer handed out to Damian Alloway out of Summit H.S. in Fontana, California in San Bernardino County. There was some talk before this but now Alloway has made it known that he really, really likes Notre Dame.
#NotreDame Alloway lands big offer - Four-star wide receiver Damian Alloway had been hoping Notre Dame woul...— Notre Dame on Scout (@NDonScout) May 28, 2015
Alloway immediately put Notre Dame in his top group with UCLA, California, and Wisconsin and has said he will not commit anywhere until he visits South Bend. Irish coaches are trying to set up a visit this summer and for an official visit to the USC game. He's being recruited as a multi-dimensional slot receiver. If you're not adverse to watching a lot of touchdowns you should check out Alloway's highlights.
Notre Dame also recently offered Devwah Whaley out of Central Senior H.S. a little over an hour to the northeast of Houston, Texas. He recently named a Top 10 right before the Irish offer and it did not include Notre Dame.
Things are slipping for Elijah Holyfield. He was recently down at Alabama visiting and camping for the Crimson Tide coaching staff.
Notre Dame could be gaining something with Deon McIntosh who was visited by Autry Denson during the spring evaluation period. McIntosh said the Irish will make his top 10 when he comes out with one this summer.
Keep an eye on (NC) Rico Dowdle N/R out of A C Reynolds, former high school of Ben Councell. He ran for Denson recently and is setting up a summer visit to Notre Dame.
2016 NC RB Rico Dowdle shows off speed for #NotreDame and sets summer visit. (Premium) pic.twitter.com/9YBMJ5fH29— Irish Sports Daily (@ISDUpdate) May 21, 2015
Another back the Irish were checking on during the spring evaluation period was (FL) Travis Homer .881 and he just committed to Miami on Sunday.
(IN) Chris Evans .894 out of Ben Davis H.S. in Indianapolis still has not been offered by Notre Dame. He visited Michigan this past weekend, was offered, and is now announcing a decision this upcoming weekend. He's expected to pick the Wolverines.