UPDATED: 12:43 a.m.
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- This is a daily briefing of the Indians 2010 regular season. The Indians play the Rays in the first game of a two-game series tonight at Tropicana Field.ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- This is a daily briefing of the Indians 2010 regular season. The Indians play the Rays in the first game of a two-game series tonight at Tropicana Field..
A diving Trevor Crowe caught the ball momentarily for what appeared to be the third out, but the ball popped out of Crowe's glove when he hit the turf. Carl Crawford, who opened the inning with a double off Aaron Laffey, scored the tying run.
In the lead: The Indians took a 3-2 lead in the sixth on Jhonny Peralta's triple and Trevor Crowe's two-out single.
Slowly, but surely:.
After that, Carmona took control of the game.
Cabrera hurt: Carmona and the Indians had to recover from the loss of Asdrubal Cabrera. The shortstop broke his left forearm in a collision with third baseman Peralta behind second base and had to driven off the field on a cart. Luis Valbuena replaced Cabrera at short.
Knotted: The Indians tied the score, 2-2, with runs in the second and fourth. Peralta singled home Austin Kearns with a two-out single in the second. Kearns reached on a double against Jeff Niemann. Valbuena singled Mike Redmond i the4 second.
The lines: Carmona allowed two runs on five hits in 6 2/3 innings. He struck out a season-high seve batters, while walking one. Niemann allowed three runs on 10 hits in six innings.
Pregame notes:
Game 36: Center fielder Grady Sizemore is not in tonight's starting lineup after bruising his left knee diving back into first base in Sunday's 5-1 victory over Baltimore. Trevor Crowe will start in center field for Sizemore and bat ninth.
In other news, the Indians have traded right-hander Saul Rivera to Arizona for cash. The D-backs are in need of relief help after releasing Bobby Howry and will bring Rivera right to the big leagues.
Rivera came to the Indians on a minor-league deal during the offseason, but did not make the big-league club in spring training despite pitching well. He pitched well at Class AAA Columbus, and had an out in his contract, but the date for him to demand his release had already passed.
Rivera was 2-0 with four saves and a 0.53 ERA in 17 innings for the Clippers. He struck out struck out 11, walked seven and allowed one earned run in 15 appearances.
Josh Judy, who had an impressive spring in big league camp, will move from Class AA Akron to Columbus to take Rivera's spot. Judy opened the year with a sore right elbow and only made two appearances at Akron.
Lineups: Indians (15-20): SS Asdrubal Cabrera (S), 2B Mark Grudzielanek (R), RF Shin-Soo Choo (L), DH Travis Hafner (L), LF Austin Kearns (R), 1B Russell Branyan (L), 3B Jhonny Peralta (R), C Mike Redmond (R) CF Trevor Crowe (S) and RHP Fausto Carmona.
Rays (26-11): RF Ben Zobrist (S), LF Carl Crawford (L), 3B Evan Longoria (R), 1B Carlos Pena (L), DH Hank Blalock (L), CF B.J. Upton (R), C John Jaso (L), SS Reid Brignac (L), 2B Sean Rodriguez (R) and RHP Jeff Niemann.
Umpires: H Jerry Layne, 1B Mike Winters, 2B Hunter Wendelstedt, 3B Mike Estabrook. Layne, crew chief.
Quote of the day: "We run our club like a pawn shop -- we buy, we trade, we sell," former Oakland A's owner Charlie Finley in Baseball's Greatest Quotations as told to the Los Angeles Times on June 23, 1977.
Next: LHP David Huff (1-5, 5.35) vs. LHP David Price (5-1, 2.03) Tuesday at 1:10 p.m. at Tropicana Field.