The.
Monzoor Hussain, Lindsey Clark, Arshad Hussain, Hardeep Saini and Razwan Faraz were all senior leaders at PVET, which ran Park View Academy, Nansen Primary and Golden Hillock School.
The schools are among five in Birmingham plunged into special measures in April last year following an alleged plot by hardline Muslims to take control of governing bodies.
Giving evidence, the former Nansen head - referred to as ‘Witness C’ - claimed things changed in 2011 when it was decided the school should convert to an academy sponsored by PVET and Tahir Alam joined the governing body. Mr Alam was last month banned by the Department for Education from any involvement in schools for ‘undermining British values’.
Witness C said: “From that moment on there was constant bullying and harassment from all sides and I felt no one was listening to me. There were different agendas from everyone, from the governing body, Lindsey Clark and her team and the religious aspect of it.”
She claimed she was suspended by Ms Clark - former executive principal at PVET - in October 2012 when it was discovered the school’s fire alarm was not working properly and there was no evacuation procedure in place.
Witness C added: “When I was suspended I felt a great sense of relief that I was finally able to get out of the situation in which I had been bullied, harassed and intimidated.
“I decided I could not return to the school. I have never returned to education. The whole ordeal was traumatic and upsetting and it has taken me a long time to recover.”
Meanwhile, her witness statement said the governing body had left her feeling “undermined” and that they “wanted her gone”.
She said that in 2010 she moved the school from one that held Islamic assemblies to one with “multi-faith” ones. Her evidence claimed the move was strongly opposed by Monzoor Hussain, who was a governor at Nansen at the time as well as assistant headteacher at Park View.
She claimed two years later the governing body voted at a meeting she did not attend to reintroduce Islamic assemblies and Friday prayers. But she said the school did not have the facilities to cope with the prayer sessions.
“It was brought to my attention that there was chaos in the toilets because the children were trying to do ablution (act of washing themselves) before prayer and the school did not have the facilities to accommodate this,” she added.
“I found it astonishing that young children in a British state school were being encouraged to take part in Islamic prayer during the normal school day.
“I had never been asked about Friday prayers and I felt that if I challenged them I would have dug myself into a deeper hole and I would have been seen as a Muslim who is not religious and therefore considered unsupportive.
“I believe the responsibility of religion lies at home.”
The former headteacher criticised the selection of Razwan Faraz to the role of deputy head at Nansen in 2012, claiming he was not her preferred choice as he was “a bit green” and did not have strong enough leadership skills.
She claimed members on the recruitment panel, including Monzoor Hussain, were “good friends” with Razwan and had been seen leaving a restaurant with him just days before his interview for deputy headship.
She added: “Those who wanted to appoint Razwan, including Monzoor, were completely determined that he got the job and would not listen to my reasoning.”
Representing Monzoor Hussain, barrister Andrew Faux, said Witness C had applied for the school’s denomination to change from holding Islamic to multi-faith assemblies without consulting governors or parents - despite claiming the opposite on an application form to officials.
He claimed the governing body only “woke up” to the change two years later in 2010.
Claire Darwin, representing Razwan Faraz, added: “The law requires pupils to undertake collective worship at all state schools, no matter what faith.”
She said there were still Christian assemblies held at the predominantly Muslim school, and Razwan had sent Witness C an email urging her to ensure their quality were on a par with Islamic assemblies.
She said the recruitment panel had also selected a white non-Muslim teacher to a second role as deputy head and he was their top choice over Razwan.
She added: “This wasn’t a panel selecting candidates based on their religion or ethnicity.”
She also denied Razwan was good friends with any of the panel and insisted he had not gone to a restaurant with any of them ahead of his interview.
The teachers all deny the allegations and the hearing continues.