Seller: uspolypak (12,117) 99.9%, Location: Round Rock, Texas, Ships to: US, Item: 321625951404 Home Poly Bags Cello Gusseted Tubing Reclosable - Clear Poly Bags & Tubing Layflat Poly Bags 1 Mil Layflat Clear Bags Layflat 1.5 Mil Clear Bags 50 - 6" x 4 1/2" Clear Packing List Slips TYPE: Self Adhesive Peel-Off & Stick Backing Pouch. MATERIAL: 2 Mil Polyethylene SIZE: Inches / Outside Dimensions. Note: Front bottom might be printed "This PLE Contains Recycled Material" All orders are shipped out the same or next business day excluding postal holidays. (Tracking number included) Orders under 16 oz will use First Class mail (Average delivery 2-4 business days) Orders over 16 oz will use Priority, FedEx or UPS (Average delivery 2-4 business days) Payment Types: Paypal, eCheck, Credit Cards. Paypal account is not required to purchase as guest. Before Ordering: Our poly products are available in many styles and sizes from 1 to 6-mil in thickness. 1-mil is the thinnest being equivalent to one thousandth of an inch that are designed for light duty packaging needs. Your contents must be at least half an inch smaller in all directions than the packing slip size selected. Returns: Returns are accepted for refund up-to 30 days after delivery. To return your purchase, please contact us for instructions. Buyer is subject to pay return postage and restocking fee unless agreed to be waived by us. Read our return policy link for more information.: Photos may show other sizes that are displayed for representation only. Do not use these packing slips in ovens, food vacuum sealers, or for any hot substances, liquids, ice cubes, or sharp - pointed objects. We have no control over the use or misuse of our products, and assume no liability for loss, injury, damage, late or non-delivery, or any expense of any kind arising from the use of, or inability of usage. Terms & Conditions: This sale is for packing slips only. Any contents shown in photos are not included. Upon purchasing the buyer understands and agrees to use the bags in compliance with the applicable safety & disposal laws and/or regulations for the locations of purchase and usage. Bag Safety Notice: Use Caution: To avoid danger of suffocation, keep these packings slips away from babies, children and animals. Do not use these packing slips/Generic, Model: Packing List Envelopes, MPN: Does Not Apply, Type: Peel n' Stick, Features: Adhesive, Size: 6 x 4 1/2" O.D, Color: Clear, Quantity: 50, Thickness: 2-Mil