The latest national and political news stories, photos, videos, in-depth articles and opinions from experts of GQ.
The system is increasingly stacked against the non-rich.
The first step is admitting we have a problem.
Drew Magary on the enduring presence of Real Time, a vestige of a different decade.
A new report indicates Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Bernie Sanders, and Beto O'Rourke are all going to be primary targets of mysterious social media campaigns.
Drew Magary on Wisconsin senator Jim Steineke and other power brokers who can’t be inconvenienced.
His lawyers say “he will not forget this ordeal.”
Mari Uyehara on Trump's State of the Union and how a diverse coalition of Democrats stole the spotlight.
Drew Magary on the messy state that brought us Ralph Northam in blackface and Colonial Williamsburg.
Drew Magary on the billionaires that the political media continues to treat with kid gloves.
Next up: The progressive senator from Vermont whose agenda is reshaping the Democrats before our very eyes.
The Speaker of House has been a step ahead of the White House at every turn.
On “motherf*cker.”
A younger generation of politicians has a unique opportunity to blaze a new trail in Congress.
Meanwhile, government employees making $20,000 a year are being asked to work without pay.
The President cares what the pundits say—and now they're screaming "shutdown."
The actor tells GQ about portraying Donald Rumsfeld, acting opposite Christian Bale, and his evolving comedic taste.
Tucker Carlson’s punditry doesn’t deserve the benefit of the doubt.
Zach Baron spent time with the reporters fighting to keep news alive in an age when the forces they cover are working equally hard to destroy them.
The Massachusetts senator’s clumsy PR offensive tiptoes into dangerous territory about race and whose definitions matter.
Drew Magary on the day-to-day numbness of life in America today.
Cindy Hyde-Smith and the limits of bad candidates.
On the president's Veterans Day weekend.
Drew Magary on why Democrats need new blood on top.
He runs the most disciplined shop in Washington, so we talked to the people who know him best to figure out what comes next.
Make America hope again.
The Republican party has long embraced bigotry as a political strategy.
Step 1: Buy a used voting machine on eBay. Step 2: Convince the American public that voting is already rigged.
Jewish caricatures, chop suey fonts, and more, courtesy of the GOP.
Let the world's gentlest show into your heart.
Drew Magary on the rise of right-wing extremism in the Americas and the enablers who are happy to look the other way.