Mattias Ekholm happy to still be with Predators after trade speculation, and they feel the same | Estes
Hockey can be beautiful in times – and via players – you wouldn’t expect.
I'm talking about a stunningly graceful sequence of only a few seconds: A flicked pass to ignite a give-and-go behind the defense, gliding free on a breakaway, sizzling a shot into the far post and into the net.
Imposing 6-foot-4, 215-pound defensemen with thick beards and hard stares aren’t supposed to do that.
Mattias Ekholm reminded everyone that he can.
His first goal in more than a month made a marvelous moment in Monday night’s pivotal 5-2 victory at a lively Bridgestone Arena, allowing the Nashville Predators to keep distance over the Chicago Blackhawks in the race for the Central Division’s final playoff spot.
Nearly as memorable as the goal itself was the celebration. Ryan Johansen, the teammate on the other end of the give-and-go, caught Ekholm and put his arm around him. The two long-time Preds embraced while skating together about a third of the way down the ice rink.
What isn’t being said specifically, one can infer. Namely, these Preds sure are glad to still have Ekholm in Nashville.
The skill Ekholm flashed Mondayis why so many other NHL teams were interested in him leading up to last week’s trade deadline.
One of the defining storylines of this season will be something that never happened. The Preds caught fire at the right time to avoid hanging the “For Sale” sign that many believed they would.
How close the Preds actually got to trading Ekholm remains unclear. Sure was speculated about, though, more so than for any other Preds player. TSN in Canada listed Ekholm atop its “Trade Bait” list for a while. As recently as March 26, ESPN called Ekholm “the belle of the trade deadline ball among defensemen” and noted that “Teams have been lining up for weeks to land Ekholm if the Predators deal him.”
MORE:How Nashville Predators veered from path toward rebuild to become hottest team in NHL
Insider Pierre LeBrun of TSN reported the Preds’ asking price for Ekholm was a first-round pick, a top prospect and some type of additional, third asset.
There was no ignoring this chatter. Ekholm noticed it just like anyone would.
“It’s nothing that I’ve really had to deal with a lot throughout my career,” he said Monday. “But when the team doesn’t do well and we don’t meet the expectations, things are going to happen. Now we were able to find a way to turn this around, and I’m really happy to be part of that. Because I’ve loved my time in Nashville.”
It was a compliment, really. Ekholm, at age 30, was so coveted because he fell into that sweet spot of a good player with a relatively inexpensive contract. He would have been an ideal addition for multiple contending teams, and those teams knew it.
It was also a helpless situation for Ekholm, too, because the better he played, the more that value would increase. And he was playing awfully well, even when the Preds were not. One could make a case that – outside of thriving goaltender Juuse Saros – Ekholm has been the Preds’ most valuable player this season.
His plus-minus total of +12 – meaning goals scored or allowed while he was on the ice – leads the team. It far exceeds defensemen Ryan Ellis (-6) and Roman Josi (-10).
Entering Monday’s game, Hockey Reference had Ekholm second only to Saros in “overall point shares” on the team. Can't say I'm entirely sure what that means, but it sounds good.
MORE FROM GENTRY ESTES:Clark Lea is scrapping Vanderbilt football's old identity. Can he build one back?
Off the ice, too, coaches have been imploring Ekholm – a stoic, cerebral sort – to be more vocal. And he has done that, becoming an inspirational leader behind a turnaround that has happened despite injuries to key players.
“He’s a really sharp kid,” said Preds coach John Hynes of Ekholm. “Just to see him be able to get out of his shell a little bit vocally … it’s nice when you have a player of his caliber really invested in the team but also coming out of his shell and being vocal, because his voice does have some weight in the room.”
For Ekholm, it looks like he doesn't need to pack. The storm of uncertainty seems to have passed.
General manager David Poile has suggested that Ekholm isn’t going anywhere. For what it’s worth, Poile has grumbled about the extent of the trade speculation this season, especially in Canadian media and especially as it related to Ekholm.
Poile is rarely plainspoken publicly about such matters, but he was when asked about Ekholm on deadline day.
“His name got thrown out there a lot in trade baits and different things,” Poile said. “But I mean, my next conversation with Mattias will be after this year about how he thinks he fits into the future of this hockey club and whether he would like to be here longer, not whether we want to trade him.”
Reach Gentry Estes at gestes@tennessean.com and on Twitter @Gentry_Estes.