On the bubble? Austin homes most overvalued in the U.S., analysis says
Home values in Austin have been rising rapidly the past two years, and normally that’s a good thing. But real estate online mega-portal Trulia says the Austin market might be sitting on a bubble that could burst, driving prices down.
Trulia's most recent research, which tabulates fundamental values based on supply, demand and realistic expectations about the future, indicates that Austin is the most overvalued residential real estate market in the country — nearly 20 percent more than what it should be.
“The more prices are overvalued relative to fundamentals, the closer we are to a housing bubble and the bigger the risk of a price crash,” said Trulia Chief Economist Jed Kolko.
Trulia cited the most recent data released by the Austin Board of Realtors, which indicates that the median value of a single family jumped 11 percent from August 2013 to August of this year. The average price of a single family home is $311,414. The Austin Business Journal featured that data in its own analysis noting, however, that prices and velocity are starting to slip.
Austin isn't alone in Trulia's latest report, which estimates that seven of the largest 100 metro markets are overvalued in excess of 10 percent — the highest since the first quarter of 2009. The last time many cities were overvalued, Kolko notes, was in the spring of 2000.
Austin, however, has been overvalued, if even slightly, for some time, Trulia data said: 2 percent overvalued in 2006 and 7 percent overvalued in the spring of 2013.
The latest numbers put Austin in the same league as Los Angeles (15 percent overvalued), Orange County, California (15 percent) and San Francisco (12 percent).
Most of the undervalued markets are in the Midwest and Northeast. Dayton, Ohio, for instance, is 21 percent undervalued followed closely by Cleveland (19 percent undervalued) and Detroit (18 percent).
Jan Buchholz covers commercial and residential real estate, construction and architecture and retail and restaurants for the Austin Business Journal.