Status: Closed
Know more about this business than we do? Cool! Please submit any corrections or missing details you may have.Help us make it right
Offices of Dr. Michael Donato and Orthodontic Specialist P.C. Located in Staten Island and Brooklyn, New York and Metuchen, Edison New Jersey, we are an orthodontic office specializing in childhood and adult orthodontics, Clarity braces and Invisalign.
Dr. Donato sees every patient at every visit. Patients walk out of our office having a seamless experience.\nWe make high-quality orthodontic care affordable with a variety of payment options to meet your needs, including no-interest payment plans and we accept direct insurance from most insurance carriers reducing your fee.\nWe understand busy lifestyles and do our best to accommodate your...
My top priority as your orthodontist is to provide you with the highest quality orthodontic care in an efficient, comfortable setting. Whether with braces or Invisalign, we want to give you confidence in your smile! We make premier, patient-focused, fun, and friendly orthodontics affordable.
It's my opinion that every man should own a Stetson hat. I've owned one for over a decade, but when I lost some weight a couple of years back I learned that apparently most of that weight had encircled my big ol' fat head. When I took my hat out a few weeks ago and tried it on, it could spin around on my …
Q: Is this business in a safe neighborhood?
A: Absolutely, It is the safest neighborhood around
Q: Did they follow up with you after your appointment?
A: Yes, they made sure I had everything I needed!
Q: Did you leave the office feeling satisfied with your visit?
A: Yes
Q: Did this provider promise services he/she couldn't provide?
A: No, they were able to provide everything they said they...
Orthodontics Correction of Teeth Irregularities, Orthodontic Specialist PC, Nj Specialty Permit #3884, Nj Specialty Permit # 3884, Excellence In Orthodontics for Children & Adults, Children and Adults
Payment Options: Cash, Visa, Master Card, American Express, Personal Checks, Financing
Orthodontic Specialist PC: Michael Donato DMD MS can be found at Middlesex Avenue 456. The following is offered: Orthodontists. The entry is present with us since Sep 9, 2010 and was last updated on Nov 30, 2013. In Metuchen there are 2 other Orthodontists. An overview can be found here.
Orthodontic Specialist PC: Michael Donato DMD MS is located at 456 Middlesex Avenue, Metuchen, NJ. This business specializes in Dentistry and Orthodontists.
Offices and clinics of dentists