
Pasta
56 reviews
Lupo Verde
Hydro boston lettuce, pickled mushrooms, red onion, hazelnuts, Parmigiano-Reggiano, balsamic vinaigrette
45 reviews
Cacio e Pepe
Parmeggiano, pecorino, sunny-side egg
12 reviews
Lupo has always been and always will be my favorite restaurant when I’m in the mood for Italian cuisine! The food is delicious, the staff is knowledgeable and very welcoming! Great vibe and beautiful interior design!
Lupo is amazing because it’s consistent. The first time I went years ago was amazing and every time since just the same. The food and service are top notch. A little slice of Italy in dc.
The only thing I would change is the volume on the music, was a little loud at times. Otherwise everything was amazing, and the service was amazing
We had some awesome food! The tuna and artichoke appetizers were so good! I had the short rib and my husband had the whole branzino, both very tasty. The staff was attentive and very friendly. It started getting windy outside and they quickly found us a table inside. I will go back very soon. We live a few blocks away and wish I had tried it sooner!
We ate prior to a show at 9:30 Club . Sal provided great service, and the meal was delish. Lobster pasta special, and spare ribs ravioli.
Food was great, drinks were great, staff are kind and quick. Absolutely 0 complaints to be had.
The bar tender/waiter was amazing, but the host not so much. I made a reservation for 8:15 pm and had to wait 30 minutes, and they were nonchalant about it and brushed us off. We didn't let them ruin our date, but i thought id mention this part of the experience. The bartender/waitress was great, food great. Overall good night.
Amazing service…made my birthday so special. This was already a favorite spot of mine, but the recent visit cemented it as a key go-to!!
I hardly ever write reviews, but Lupo Verde truly deserves one.
I went for brunch with 10 friends for my birthday and the staff was excellent & extremely accommodating. All in our party agreed that the staff contributed to making this day extra special.
The food was excellent, as always.
Ambiance, food, energy and service were really good! Pasta are home made and good portions. Wine and cocktail selection is also quite decent.
The restaurant itself is darling and then staff was very nice, but the food was only so/so and I wound up paying $26 for a steak salad, which had unseasoned steak on a relatively small salad of simple butter leaf lettuce w/ a couple of toppings. I get that lunch in DC will be pricey, but this felt over the top for something that wasn't even very good.
Good food, relatively slow service, inside chairs are not comfortable. Overall had a Ok-good experience, but not great.
Delicious brunch outside on a gorgeous day. Perfection!!
Terrible service, took 40 minutes for cold French toast and a pastry basket with store bought pastries to come out. Didn’t even order an entree.
Good good. Excellent service.
Great service, inviting atmosphere and delicious food. Loved every minute and every bite
The frittata was a block of unseasoned potatoes bound by just a bit of egg and cheese. It was not especially busy, but still took arm-waiving and multiple asks to get water and other beverage refills. I used to love Lupo but won't be going back anytime soon.
Excellent service, Atmosphere and vibe!
Great time with a great waiter. He had great suggestions and was very kind. They didn’t rush us at all and we had a relaxed long dinner
Several times we have come here and never disappoints. This was for anniversary and had cocktails, wine, two appetizers (Octopus and Artichoke) and Taggliette with Sausage and Osobucco. The Tiramisu at the end (compliments) was also outstanding. Another freest night.
Excellent homemade pasta with creamy sauces. Outdoor patio. Great for lunch of dinner get togethers. Caring staff and chefs.
The food was delicious and the restaurant is adorable! The one thing we didn’t love was how close we were seated next to other patrons. Tables were uncomfortably close together, but otherwise no complaints.
Such a great dinner experience. Great waitstaff. Quick - Have never had my food come out so fast! Thought portions would have been slightly bigger, that’s only downside.
Great new menu. This food was terrific . The service was prompt and attentive. Very friendly and welcoming.
the food and quality are wonderful. one of my favorite places for lunch or dinner.
Great food and incredible service!!! Ambiance is incredible. Great location
Went here for date night with my girlfriend. The food was amazing, very fresh and homemade tasting, and the ambiance was perfect for the occasion (dim lighting and eclectic decor). Apparently their menu has changed so it looks like they make effort to keep things interesting.
Pasta was good but not worth the price, there are better Italian restaurants for a better price in the area .
A little overpriced for the food (and the carpaccio definitely made me queasy), but a very nice atmosphere
Food was good took a little long to arrive at the table. Servers were very nice and friendly.
Service was not good and the food was extremely salty. I wanted to send it back but the waiter never came back
great food and service! The wine, apps and entrees were all amazing
The octopus was delicious. Also had the vegetarian risotto and the Buratta. The service was great too. We will return.
This place doesn’t miss
Great all around.
Our waitress Diana was wonderful!!! The food was good and the drinks were tasty! Will definitely go back!
Underrated brunch! Pancakes are fantastic
The “hand-made pasta” was a disappointment- it just tasted like generic pasta at any other restaurant. The drinks were forgotten and when they came the ice was melted. And the desert was just ok. The outdoor patio was super cute.
Wonderful ambience and incredible pasta. Great wine too!
Fantastic quality products. Nicely prepared meals. Drink was a bit skimpy, but enhanced after a comment to our server.78 OpenTable diners.
Yes, you can generally book this restaurant by choosing the date, time and party size on OpenTable. Due to local restrictions, this restaurant may not be accepting reservations at the moment.