Going to the movies is one of my favourite activities to do with the family, especially now that my children are older—six and eight years old—and are able to sit through an entire movie without so much as a complaint. We loved Frozen and The Lego Movie, and now we are pumped to see Muppets Most Wanted.
Muppets Most Wanted is going to be two hours of non-stop laughter, I'm sure. Tina Fey, Christoph Waltz, Salma Hayek, Lady Gaga, Stanley Tucci, Zack Galifianakis and Ricky Gervais all in one movie, along with Kermit and Miss Piggy? I'm loving it already!
Muppets Most Wanted hits theatres on March 21st, and I'll be attending the advanced screening next week, on March 19th. I'm also giving away THREE family four passes so you can come see the movie before everyone else, too!
To enter, just leave me a comment below telling me who your favourite Muppets character is and you'll be entered to win.
This giveaway is for Ottawa (and area) residents, and I'll randomly selected winners on March 16th.
Good Luck!
22 comments:
It's hard to pick just one... I grew up watching the series.. and now, I'm excited to get my kids into the Muppets!
I'll go with: fozzie bear (I always liked his bad jokes)
Animal is our favourite. He is spazzy like us. :)
My favourite character is Beaker!
I really like Kermit the Frog the best!
Gonzo has always been my favourite muppet!
My favourite is Fozzie Bear!
I like Kermit the frog. :)
Kermit for sure
Animal...all the way!! :D
Kermit all the way!!!
My favourite is no doubt Kermit
My personal favorite is a toss between Kermit (I love frogs) and Gonzo (just... weird guy, I guess I relate).
The wife's favorite would be Animal. I'm thinking she relates to the whole "emotionally unstable" thing. I'm sure she'd agree with me, then not.
Daughter's in LOVE with Miss Piggy - the bling, the dresses...
It has to be Fozzie. He's always trying to make people laugh.
I love love Miss Piggy!!! I used to LOVE animal as a kid!!
OMG my fave is ANIMAL!!!!!!!!!!!!
Thanks
Tracy Orange
Lately, it's been Walter. Me and him are exactly alike! We're both huge Muppet fans.
Animal he taught me that being different was OK.
Kermit!
I really enjoy Raplh The Dog
Kermie - definitely my fave!
I think I would have to pick Gonzo.
Rowlf the Dog, but the Swedish Chef is a close second.