THE juxtaposition of three items in The Press of November 16 gives cause for thought. David Hinde’s letter opposes large wind turbines near Staxton, while Mark Stead reports a rejection by City of York Council of a small turbine at Wheldrake.
Both objections are mainly about spoiling the look of the countryside. Yet elsewhere, you report that North Yorkshire County Council has to find £1.8 million to pay for damage caused by last September’s flooding. That was just one month, and we all know that the extreme weather that caused the floods is getting more frequent because of climate change.
We all know, too, that burning fossil fuels is a major cause of climate change and that renewable energy is the only way to escape our fatal carbon addiction. While wind power isn’t the only renewable energy source, it’s the biggest one with the ability now to quickly cut fossil fuel dependency. Those who dislike the appearance of wind turbines are entitled to their opinion: beauty is in the eye of the beholder. But I would ask those who object how they propose to help all of us escape the worst effects of runaway climate change?
Mark Gladwin, Huntington Road, York.
Please log in to enable comment sorting
12:37pm Tue 20 Nov 12
J-Dawg says...
Runaway climate change, oh you do make me laugh.
Yes, we had a bad summer, yes, global warming affects the climate, but it's hardly "runaway".
The best way to ease flooding in these areas that never used to be a flood risk is to REMOVE the previously installed defenses. It is because of government letting builder build on floodplains, then building these defenses which makes it flood in other places.
Perhaps we could make a forest of turbines in one place rather than scattering them across the countryside?
2:47pm Tue 20 Nov 12
ColdAsChristmas says...
How you expect a wind turbine or even lots of them to stop flooding I'll never know, especially as you need tonnes of concrete for each of their bases.
Mark, you have been Greenwashed. You base your ideas of alleged global warming on only 16 parts per million man made CO2. There has been no Global Warming since 1997, despite a rise in CO2 holistically.
The propaganda coming from the BBC will soon be ending now that it has been exposed that their bias is not based on scientific advice at all.
Interestingly, for the first time the IPCC have not been invited to the forthcoming COP 18 climate talks. The times are indeed changing and not before time and wasting a fortune we will never get back!
5:26pm Tue 20 Nov 12
far2bizzy says...
At first I considered this to be nothing more than an interesting phenomenon, but then a thought struck me. As all the others were presumably creating electricity and adding their contribution TO the grid, was this rogue in fact extracting electricity FROM the grid?
And then a further and far more sinister thought occurred. Had I inadvertently been witness to a secret test? Was there a grand global plot afoot? At some point are all the wind turbines planning to rotate, as one, the wrong way and in doing so suck all the energy from the earth’s grids? Is the human race to be suddenly rendered literally powerless? Is world domination their goal?
We build these monsters at our peril.
1:51am Wed 21 Nov 12
ColdAsChristmas says...
Stock up on battery's and calor gas!