Real Results – Before & After Juvederm Lip Filler
If you care about the way you look and your outward appearance, you know how important it is to care for your face. After all, it’s one of the first things we notice about others. Frequently, it’s the first thing they notice about us as well. The lips are a big part of what makes for a balanced and beautiful facial structure. But over time, your lips may lose volume. Meanwhile, other women simply may have been born with naturally thin lips. However, you don’t have to take it lying down. You don’t have to settle. There’s an answer – Juvederm lip filler.
What is Juvederm Lip Filler?
Juvederm is a lip filler solution commonly used in facial cosmetic treatments used to improve signs of aging, restore facial contours, and plump sagging or thin lips. This lip filler works by adding volume to the facial tissue. Utilizing the natural substance hyaluronic acid, Juvederm stimulates the production of the connective tissue collagen. It was approved by the FDA in 2006 and has been improving the lives and facial features of women all over the world.
Typically this hyaluronic acid-based filler is used on the lips, cheeks, and areas surrounding the patient’s mouth. Most Juvederm injections take approximately 15-60 minutes to complete. This all depends on the amount of work your physician must perform. Frequently, patients notice results immediately following their procedure. They can expect the results to last upwards of two years before a follow-up procedure is necessary.
If you’ve tried serums, creams, and various plumping products without success, it may be time for you to see Doctor Mac and book your Juvederm lip filler consultation. He’ll help you determine if Juvederm is right for you. Finally, if you’d like to learn more about Juvederm lip fillers, you can visit their official website.
Before & After Juvederm Lip Filler
Below are some real before and after images of a Juvederm lip filler procedure performed here at FACE of Beverly Hills. The results speak for themselves. Notice in the “before” image that the patient’s lips are thin and uneven. They fail to accent that region of the patient’s face and give a narrow appearance as well. Additionally, facial folds are present around the mouth due to aging.
However, with the introduction of Juvederm, the patient now has full, luscious, perky lips. Additionally, the indentations on the sides of the lips have decreased in size. Furthermore, and best of all, this patient’s lips look completely natural. You’ll be shocked! Plumper lips make a huge difference. Smiles will be bigger, brighter, and more radiant. You’ll glow with happiness and confidence. The results will truly exceed your expectations.
With hyaluronic acid Juvederm lip filler, Doctor Mac can help you regain lost lip volume and highlight your natural beauty. You’ll love how Juvederm lip filler plumps and accentuates your lips. It’s the perfect way to … If you’re looking for an easy way to look and feel your very best, choose a Juvederm lip filler in-office procedure at FACE of Beverly Hills.
Only you’ll know that you’ve had the procedure done. But trust us. Others will notice the subtle but enchanting change in your facial features. They’ll be drawn to your beautiful lips and wonder what you did to enhance your look. Finally, you’ll be delighted with the results. With a lip filler procedure, you’ll notice an improved sense of self-esteem and an increase in confidence. So what are you waiting for? Come give it a try today!
CHOOSE DR. MAC FOR YOUR JUVEDERM PROCEDURE
Dr. McCoy Lee Moretz, a renowned Beverly Hills cosmetic surgeon, welcomes you to a new standard of professionalism and surgical skill. If you’re looking for a Juvederm lip filler injection in Beverly Hills, Dr. Mac Moretz has the skills and knowledge to make it happen..