ORLEANS — Looking to kayak, surf or art-gaze? What about watch the sunset?
The Orleans Chamber of Commerce says it has just the place for you.
The chamber launched a new magazine last week, named Truly Orleans.
The 50-page color publication is aimed at second-home owners and vacationers, said Noelle Pina, executive director of the chamber.
The chamber had 15,000 copies printed and also soon will have a digital version available for free on its website, orleanscapecod.org, Pina said.
The magazine, which is expected to come out once a year, is replacing a glossy, fold-out map of the town that was used in years prior, chamber officials said. And it goes much farther.
"It was something that had more meat," said Erik Oliver, chairman of the Orleans chamber's board of directors.
The magazine features a one-page map, several directories and numerous features such as "Surfing Orleans," "Owning a Beach Front Home" and "Buying Local in Orleans."
Staff from Enterprise Newspapers, owned by Falmouth Publishing, edited the articles, did design and layout, and helped with advertising strategy, Pina said.
"Because we are in a tourism-based economy, they are always looking for ways to promote their business," Pina said of local merchants. "Some businesses really rely on the chamber to help their business."
The magazine has a cover price of $4.95, but the publication is expected to be distributed "at a reduced price" at various events, Pina said.
It also will be at local businesses, including real estate agents, and will be frequently given out for free, Pina said.
Sean Randall, director of sales for Falmouth Publishing, said Enterprise Newspaper staff helped pick the right type of advertisements to run, based on it being a glossy magazine.
"A lot of newspaper ads make terrible magazine ads," he said. "We worked with the Orleans chamber on what photographs would translate the best and be vibrant, and what would not work."
Randall said the chamber made a smart decision by not just focusing on stories about local businesses, but putting together a lifestyle magazine about the entire town.
Falmouth Publishing puts out its own lifestyle magazine, called Simply Falmouth, which also comes out once a year. Its first edition was last June.
Another local magazine that covers a specific town is Chatham Magazine, which was recently part of a group of publications bought by Lighthouse Publications.
Russell Piersons, president and CEO of Lighthouse Publications, hasn't seen the Orleans publication but said some of the reasons that Chatham Magazine works are that the town is a destination, it's large enough and has plenty of high end businesses and shoppers.
Pina said membership dues helped start up the Orleans magazine and revenue has mostly come from advertisements.
Candace Hammond, a freelance writer who lives in Orleans, wrote multiple articles for the inaugural edition.
"I'm a big believer in shopping local and supporting local businesses," she said. "I think its a great idea in getting into greater detail about what these stores can offer."