A double-fronted 1930's detached bungalow, enjoying elevated far-reaching estuary views, set within good sized gardens to the front and rear, providing 2-bedroomed accommodation with many original features, including internal doors, picture rails and skirting boards, also benefiting from driveway parking for 2 cars, attached garaging and a superb workshop/summerhouse.
A light, well proportioned and adaptable property, set within lovely good sized gardens to the front and rear, perfect for families, pet owners, keen gardeners or retirement purchasers looking for peaceful outside space. Retaining many features of this popular era, including picture rails, panelled doors, skirting boards, architraves (and possibly floorboards), also benefiting from upgrades such as uPVC double glazed windows and gas central heating,
A covered entrance leads to a central entrance hall which accesses all main rooms of the accommodation, a living room and double bedroom enjoying the views from the two bay windows to the front, a separate dining room which leads to the kitchen and side porch/lobby, a further bedroom with double doors to the rear garden and a generous shower room, all well presented. Our client has recently replaced the central heating boiler, the room over the kitchen and garage, and made other decorative improvements.
The property occupies a generous plot within a quiet no-through residential road in a popular residential area close to Penryn College (secondary school), Penryn train station and within a ten minute walk of the town centre.
(All dimensions being approximate).
A central pathway within the front garden and additional side pathway from the driveway parking leads up to four steps which ascend to a covered entrance with central archway and uPVC double glazed front entrance door opening into the:-
Centrally positioned with original 1930's timber panelled doors to the living room and both bedrooms. Small pane casement door to the dining room and panelled door to the bathroom. Picture rail, skirting boards and radiator.
3.63m x 3.33m (11'11 x 10'11 )
Measurements exclude the bay window to the front of the property enjoying elevated views across the Penryn River to Flushing village, the deeper waters of the Carrick Roads to The Roseland peninsula and St Mawes Castle. Mutli pane uPVC double glazing. Fireplace with timber surround, mantel and tiled hearth with a real-flame gas fire. Skirting boards, picture rail and radiator.
3.62m x 3.16m (11'10 x 10'4 )
Conveniently located adjacent to the kitchen with broad entrance way connecting the two rooms. uPVC double glazed window and matching side screen accessing the side porch. Dado rail, skirting boards and radiator.
3.40m x 2.06m (11'2 x 6'9 )
A modern fitted kitchen with a recently replaced pitched roof and modern uPVC double glazing overlooking the rear garden. The fitted units comprise cupboards and drawers at base and eye level with round-edged worksurfaces and inset stainless steel round sink with mixer tap and drainer. Space for freestanding electric oven/gas hob. Space and plumbing for dishwasher, washing machine, tumble dryer and space for tall fridge/freezer. Tiled floor and radiator.
1.17m x 3.42m (3'10 x 11'2 )
Of a conservatory-type construction with uPVC double glazing on three sides to include external doors to the front and rear and internal access door to the dining room.
3.60m x 3.30m (11'9 x 10'9 )
A particularly spacious double bedroom enjoying superb far-reaching views across the Carrick Roads to St Mawes Castle and the entrance to the Percuil River. Measurements exclude the bay window with uPVC double glazing to the front of the property. Skirting boards and radiator.
2.43m x 3.13m (7'11 x 10'3 )
A versatile second bedroom with tall uPVC double glazed doors accessing the rear garden. Radiator and skirting boards.
2.27m x 1.93m (7'5 x 6'3 )
Featuring an impressive broad shower cubicle with 'drying area', fully tiled walls and mixer shower attachment. Low flush WC and pedestal wash hand basin. Fitted boiler cupboard with recently installed Ariston gas fired combination boiler and slatted shelving below. Radiator. Obscure double glazed window to the rear of the bungalow.
An unusually large front garden area with two lawned areas and two well stocked flower bed borders with many colourful shrubs and plants, secure fenced borders with pedestrian gate to the front and side. Access pathway leading to the side porch. A timber store/summerhouse with a pitched felt roof features glazing to the front and side.
A broad driveway provides vehicular access to the attached garage and some prospective purchasers may wish to extend the parking area into the front garden if more than two spaces is required.
A private, relatively level rear garden area with paved patio and further lawned area. A few steps lead up to a:-
Loosely divided into two rooms, both under a pitched roof. Summerhouse area measuring: 2.91m x 2.06m with double glazed timber doors and windows overlooking the rear garden. Power and lighting. The attached workshop/store room measures: 2.65m x 2.28m, also featuring double glazed windows overlooking the rear garden.
2.49m x 4.37m (8'2 x 14'4 )
Featuring a recently installed metal up-and-over door from the driveway parking and uPVC double glazed door to the rear garden also. Recently replaced felt roof and timber joists. Power and lighting connected
Mains water, drainage, electricity and gas are connected to the property. Gas fired central heating.
Band C - Cornwall Council.
Freehold.
Vacant possession upon completion of the purchase.
By telephone appointment with the vendor's Sole Agent - Laskowski & Company, 28 High Street, Falmouth, TR11 2AD. Telephone: 01326 318813.
Travelling along Kernick Road away from Penryn town centre, continue through the traffic lights and take the next right-hand turning into Poltisko Road. Poltisko Terrace is the first lane on the left-hand side and Number 1 is the first property on the right..