Before we begin, I need to give some advisories. If you read my blog on Equality, you know my personal feelings on all things being equal. Those feelings will not change; humans should be able to marry any other human they want.
Not everyone agrees with my opinions. You know what’s great about that? It’s ok! It’s ok if you don’t agree with me on something. You can say the most abhorrent thing ever, and I may not like it, but you can still say it. You have the freedom to voice your opinion. We all do, even if it’s not the popular thing to say in 2013.
I don’t watch Duck Dynasty and I don’t plan to. You may have heard a gentlemen from Double D was suspended for his remarks on homosexuality in GQ magazine (Can I ask what the hell GQ was doing interviewing him? He doesn’t exactly fit their demo, does he?).
Here is what he said: (This is from CNN need to say this again, I don’t agree with what he said, at all. It comes across as narrow-minded and uneducated. But it doesn’t matter, he can still say it, and he should be able to without fear of losing his job, or being suspended. (Aside; At least he didn’t say they would all burn in hell. I was once told that I would because I didn’t believe in God.)
People are saying he compared it to bestiality, I think that’s taking it a bit far. He also compared it to sleeping around with multiple women, and society says that is ok. A football player can talk about how many kids he has with different women, and no one does a thing about it. (See: Antonio Cromartie).
In this country, he can believe in God, he can think homosexual intercourse is disgusting, and he can voice his opinion on anything he wants. And please don’t’ say something like, “He is on TV, he has a certain responsibility.” What? Where were you when I had to see celebrity after celebrity endorse a presidential nominee that I did not support? Or when they thank God for winning an award?
Oh that’s right, it’s socially acceptable to think everyone believes the same thing. I’ve seen people go on tirades because the word God was almost removed from the pledge of allegiance. There are more people who want to remove the word Christ from Christmas.
Stop, it’s enough. There is never balance in this country. As soon as a good thing happens, we all band together and take it too far. Everyone becomes intolerant of something they don’t agree with. I hate saying this because I don’t want to admit it, but I think it’s the truth. Being in the public eye, and being in favor of gay marriage (which is a terrible term, it’s just marriage), has become the cool thing to do.
I end this with a quote, from a character created by Ricky Gervais. Gervais is a noted Atheist, and this is from his show Derek.
.”
I close with this every time I blog…
Do Something Good
-Matt
I think it’s a she that the support of equality (currently marriage equality) is becoming more trendy and less about discourse. There is so much awareness and understanding being lost as the knowledge of just why marriage equality matters becomes a yes or no opinion, and the issue gets simplified as the nuances and other related issues are left out in the cold.