Why Do Black Cats Get a Bad Rap?/
Q: What has been one of the most feared pets for centuries? A: Black cats! Believe it or not, these adorable little creatures commonly get a bad rap due to folklore and superstition — but they are far from the stories that have been told! If you’re curious as to why they still receive a bad reputation, then we’re here to break it down for you:
Common Folklore
Since the early days of the 18th century (and possibly even earlier), black cats have roamed the earth with other house pets. However, during the times of the Salem Witch Trials, black cats started receiving their lousy reputation simply because they were associated with witchcraft. That’s right: locals who were suspected as witches often had a black feline, or two, in their possession.
Therefore, villagers then believed that any magic the witches would practice would be thrown onto the cat, which then the feline would act as a “messenger” to deliver the spell to the town citizens. Indeed, this is where black cats received their bad reputation, all due to speculation. Of course, there are no evident signs that black felines had any “powers” bestowed upon them, but even to this day they still have some faux superstition attached to their breed.
Halloween Chronicles
Since it’s still commonly believed that black cats harvest bad luck, these innocent creatures are the targeted on Halloween by those that want to cause harm. Sadly, this festive holiday is the reason why many animal shelters and pet stores won’t adopt/sell black cats in the month of October, just to protect these poor animals.
However, if you do happen to have a black cat as a pet, then it’s essential to keep them indoors on the big night. This will not only keep your little buddy safe, but it will also prevent your black cat from wandering around on the big night.
Looking for some more pet tips? Visit our Mineola store! Need some pet supplies? Give us a call at 516-739-1015 to see what we have in stock!
You can also follow us on social media for more parrot, exotic bird, and fish care tips and tricks!