Anastasia Steele climbed the stairs to the bedroom, where she knew business magnate Christian Grey would be waiting for her. She knew what he would do, and she knew she should hate him for it, but she climbed the stairs all the same.
She entered the room. She saw him, standing there, wearing only an eye patch and a pair of Italian silk boxers the color of blood--the color of her shame, her humiliation, her love.
Mr. Grey opened his dirty mouth, and he said, "I am Sam the Pirate King. I am Sam. Sam I am."
She tried to remember every smart thing her mother ever told her, but all she could do was whisper, "I do not like that Sam I am."
He tore open her crisp white blouse. Fondling her trembling breasts, he said, "Do you like green eggs and ham?"
"I...I do not like green eggs and ham." Her voice quivered.
He threw her to the ground. "Oh, you like green eggs and ham," he said. "You like them in a train. You like them in a plane. You like them on the ground. You like them all around. You like them wearing leather--even more in stormy weather. You like them when I tie you down. You like them when I wear a crown. You like green eggs and ham. You like them, and you want them.
"No. No. Ok. Yes. I...I do like green eggs and ham. It's wrong, I know, but I can't live without green eggs and ham. I can't and I won't! Her eyes grew wide, and she felt a deep power weld up inside her. With a fierceness that made Mr. Grey's nostrils flare in excitement, she struggled and twisted until she was sitting on top of him. "I'll them in the dark. I'll have them in the park. I'll them here and now. I'll have them bouncing on a cow.
"But tell me this, Mr. Grey, is that a wocket in your pocket, or are you just glad to see me?
7/16/12
Fifty Shades of Green Eggs and Ham
24 comments:
I don't know. I'm thinking about this for the opening of my new novel. Thoughts?
Racey, and wierd ... continue!
This is hysterical.
Ha ha! I read that first book for a friend, she was so excited about it. I was laughing all the way!
"You like them wearing leather--even more in stormy weather"
I want that line on a T-Shirt
Ahahaha. But, gasp, did you read it, or is the parody an educated guess?
Margaret, where can I get a bottle of your brain, so I can have a sip when I need it?
I loved this when you read it, and I still love it now. You're definitely going in my Google Reader!
This is something I wrote and performed at camp. I haven't read the book. I looked it up on Wikipedia. It was an awful lot fun. welcome to the party Heather.?
Hint: it gets better after Book One. And aren't we all envious that this hopeless author got so successful after posting a Twilight tribute novel online?!
Clever, witty, fun. A triple crown of laughter!
Haha! Very witty, clever -- well written.
Margaret...YOU ROCK!!!
I just bot my copy of *the Goddess Lounge*!!! Can't wait to finish what I'm reading and get started!!!
that would be "got"!!!!
Love it...from some of the reports I've read, I may prefer your version!Alison xx
Addey: I am so glad you liked it! One wee favor: if you are so inclined, would you mind putting those very same words up on Amazon? Not a big deal if you can't, but, apparently, reader reviews are really helpful.
Love this.
Eager to return home and start reading GL. Meanwhile, never think of Green Eggs and Ham the same way again. Many thanks.
Will do on both Amazon, and B&N since I bought the nook version. I was planning on it, just hadn't gotten there yet....
Addey, that would be fantastic. Thanks very much. Have a great day!
Giggle. Gasp. Giggle some more. You crack me up.
Ah-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Classic Margaret. I love it! ;o)
Haha, this is brilliant, I want to hear more!