.
June 2018 Edition
Creating Dining Experiences Worth Sharing on Social Media
by David Mitroff, Ph.D. Founder & CEO, Piedmont Avenue Consulting, Inc.
More than ever today is about experiences, and people want to share their experiences. In order to run a successful restaurant, you must be able to create an experience for your customers. How are you making your restaurant shareable? What does the presentation of your food look like? The lighting? Does your restaurant have unique foods? What is different about your restaurant that makes your guests want to tell others about the experience? Below are some tips and examples you can use to ensure a positive, shareable experience at your restaurant.
Create a unique atmosphere:
Use decorations and aesthetics to create an environment your guests will remember and that will keep them coming back. You can create many different vibes with the way you choose to decorate and design your restaurant, such as romantic, cozy, or even one that matches the type of food you are serving. Providing guests with a comfortable, unique atmosphere will help your restaurant stand out and create a memorable experience for all.
Trader Vics
Koutoubia
Foreign Cinema
Offer picture worthy cocktails:
Another great way to make your restaurant stand out and create an experience worth sharing is to offer a unique bar program. This will set you apart from other establishments and likely create a buzz on social media which will greatly benefit business. You can hire a bar consultant to help with the process of enhancing your bar and drink menu items. Having craft cocktails that look cool is a great way to get your business posted on different platforms such as Snapchat, Instagram, and Twitter for others to see.
Ramen Shop
The Beehive
The Oxford
Focus on the presentation of food:
In today’s society, food presentation is all the hype. Figuring out how to creatively present your food to guests will make your restaurant different and create an experience for them that they are likely to want to share with others. Food with nice presentation attracts food bloggers and could potentially create a lot of press across many different platforms for your business.
Commis
Lazy-Bear
Acquellero
How are you going to create a positive, shareable experience for your customers? Come up with ways to set your restaurant apart from others, while at the same time create memorable moments for your guests that they will want to share. This will further boost your message and brand, which, in turn, will help your business grow exponentially.
David Mitroff, Ph. D will be a featured speaker at the Western Foodservice & Hospitality Expo on Monday, August 20th at 2:00 pm discussing Effective Marketing Strategies to Manager Customer Pitfalls and Boost Loyalty.