Resumes
Objectives
Seeking a challenging career with a progressive organization, this will utilize my skills, abilities and education in textile designing.
Educational Qualification
ü Master in business Administrator
(M.B.A correspondence Distance learning) 2008
ü Diploma business Administrator
(D.B.A correspondence Distance learning) 2006
ü Textile designing (Tata technical institute ) 2000
ü Secondary School Certificate S.S.C 1998
Computer proficiency:
Book library
Digital graphic designs with Wilcom, Nanoteck, Adobe Photoshop, coreldraw, Illustrator, Microsoft Word-Excel, Work with Windows Operating system.
Work Experience:
Designation: Embroidery Digitizing designs Textile designer
Creative design,209, 2nd floor, shree Krishna market, near kinnary cinema, ring road, surat. (from April-2006 working on own Design studio) Responsibilities:
Ø Creating Design for embroidery design with multty (thread) sequence as buyer’s requirement, shirting, garments, saress, dress, leces, logo, etc,
Ø Creating design for textile printing as buyer's requiring likes zari print, rubber print, pigments print design, block style print, box design, brusher design, etc .
Ø Marketing, Lead the team, Manage Designing team guide and motivate them for developing new concept , study on local market, work with exporter and local job work units,
Ø Developing Web designing statistic and dynamic site as client requirement.
Designation: Textile designer\Modelling job work
Besto Art at Housing road, pandesara, Surat. (Full time march-2005 April-2006) Responsibilities:
Ø Providing developed designs in required style design as per buyer's requirement, for dress and sarees.
Ø Shoot the photo of model and setup for all kind of Graphic work, Shoot the saris and dress Photos
Ø Match the colour of sarees or dress with fabric photo which shoot by camera, Manage computer operators for further work
Ø Using the plug-in of Photoshop tools and editing, edit with model pose image, set colours with background image effect etc...
Designation: Textile designer
M/s. Suman Mills (PVT) Ltd.Sachin, Surat. (Full time may-2004 Feb-2005)
Ø Prepare artwork and designs for the prints on different kind of fabric
Ø Providing developed designs in required style design as per buyer's requirement,
Ø Working on Photoshop and Illustrator
Designation: Supervision\Programmer
M/s Bharucha Printing mills (PVT) LTD Pandesara, Surat. (Full time jun-2001 Jan-2003) Responsibilities:
Ø Providing developed Printed fabric sample to our client, explain about sample and fabric, Advice about colour and fabric to client, the job title was printing programmer
Ø Collect order from client and match with there different design sample and colours, Providing printing and dying program for printing and dying machine, maintain day and night shift production and all machine worker,
Designation: Supervision
M/s Jagdamba textile mills (PVT) LTD, A.K. road, Surat. (Full time jun-2000 Des-2000)
Ø Supervision on Textile printing machine, that how to print on fabric and all colour screens adjust on printing machine,
Ø Colour test and match with sample which are select by our client, maintain heating for printed fabric,
Ø Manage with all machine workers, maintain production.
Personal Details
Name: Mayur.Dahyabhai.Patel.
Date of Birth: 29 may 1983
Nationality: Indian
Languages: English, Hindi, and Gujarati
Height : 5.8
Marriage statues: Unmarried
Address: Nanakwada, kakwad Street, Valsad, 396001.
Mail ID: osj86b@r.postjobfree.com
Contact No: Mo - (+91) 982*******, (+91) 937*******
Declaration:
I hereby declare that details furnished are true and complete to the Best of my knowledge and belief.
Yours faithfully
Mayur Patel
jobresum
India, Surat, GJ - surat, mech, msc, marathi, gj, office, hsc,...
Autodesk AutoCAD 2013/14, Autodesk Inventor 2013-14
India, Surat, GJ - surat, cnc, mechanical, patel, event coordinator,...
Sales Office
India, Surat, GJ - surat, gandhinagar, embroidery, gj, imran,...
greduat
India, Surat, GJ - surat, gj, computer, tally, college, certificate,...
B.E. EC
India, Surat, GJ - surat, ece, result, sslc, single, gj, expert,...
Manager Company
India, Surat, GJ - surat, hr manager, company, gujarat, admin, months,...
Project Sql Server .Net Information Technology
India, Surat, GJ - surat, c#, asp.net, j2ee, jquery, gujarat, ajax,...