Just another example how the US Government is more worried about the profits of the American Private Corporations than with the health of its own citizens.
"Chlorpyrifos is an inexpensive and effective pesticide that has been on the market since 1965."
Since 1965? So the US Government allowed profits to trump the health of its citizens for 55 years already?
Despite the ban on household use and the fact that chlorpyrifos doesn’t linger in the body, over 75% of people in the U.S. still have traces of chlorpyrifos in their bodies, mostly due to residues on food.
This number is not a joke. 3/4 of the population are infected because of pesticides in their food and several US Governments did nothing about it?
.
I don't agree with the way things are being done. We shouldn't allow Governments and Corporations to spread the use of chemical products until they are proven to be unsafe.
That's backwards.
Instead, we should be prohibiting the use of new products on a massive scale until they are proven to be safe.
That's what a logical human would do.
First, products should be tested and they should only be released for the general population after extensive tests have proven beyond any reasonable doubt that they are completely safe for our health as well as for the ecosystem.
Why do we allow Governments and Corporations to release the products so quickly, turning us all into lab rats?
Oh, that's right. For the Almighty Dollar. How could I forget?.
Oh, look. Independent studies didn't took too long to conclude that these pesticides were harmful to humans. If only the American Government wasn't so corrupt and followed real scientists instead of trusting fake scientists hired by Private Corporations, many Americans wouldn't be infected and poisoned right now.
Instead, this is what the US Government accepted as "science":.
So, this is the kind of testing that the American Government accepts? This is not a test at all. This is mocking with the public and with science. This is making fools out of us. This is turning citizens into lab experiments. It is completely immoral and it should be considered a crime against humanity..
Why am I not surprised that a populist president acted in the interest of the Private Corporations and against its citizens?
Most voters are so dumb that they can't even see when they are being stabbed in the back. Their unconditional love for a Political Party that keeps betraying them makes them blind. Voters are like a woman who's suffered from domestic violence for 20 years and still loves her husband and believes that is real love, no matter how many times she ends up in the ER.
Why do we keep upvoting for these guys, over and over again? Are we humans that dumb that we keep making the choices that hurt us the most? Are we simply a masochistic species?
Wake up America. Wake up World. It's time to take the power back.
Source: Why California is banning chlorpyrifos, a widely-used pesticide: 5 questions answered by Gina Solomon