Is God Calling You?
By Heather Cox
But he said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness."
Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ’s power may rest on me. 2 Corinthians 12:9
I’ve recently been reading short biographies of missionaries of women like Amy Carmichael and Gladys Alward. It’s interesting to peer inside another person’s life and see how she walked with God, taking into consideration her personal life circumstances, her calling and her gifting. Most of the time, when I read these stories, I am inspired to walk closer to my God and to step out and serve Him more.
These were women who left everything they knew to be comfortable, worked harder than anyone I’ve ever known, and counted it a joy to serve the Lord in all they did. Gladys worked days and nights through war torn areas, rescuing children and even boldly stopping a prison riot because she was willing to follow God wherever He led. Amy took one child at a time away from temples in India until she had created a family of over a hundred whose highest goal was to love the Lord and each other. What is it that made them so different from the ordinary Christian? These ladies died to selfishness.
First of all, neither woman seemed to put much stock in what everyone else thought they should be doing. Gladys was told she wasn’t fit for missions for multiple reasons – namely lack of education. But, she didn’t let that stop her. Amy was often criticized for the way that she cloistered her “family” inside a wall and protected them from the world. She ignored their words because she was confident that she was doing what God had told her to do.
How often have I let my weaknesses hold me back?
“I’m not good enough at that ministry or job. I shouldn’t even pursue it.”
Really, what I’m thinking is that it might just be too hard. Where did God say we weren’t supposed to do things that were difficult? As a matter of fact, if He only called us to do things that were easy, why did He say “My strength is perfect in your weakness”? ( 2 Corinthians 12:9)
Am I putting more stock in what other people think I should be doing than in what God is calling me to?
Are my decisions based upon what others might wonder about me?
Am I easily swayed into changing my mind or behavior because I’m concerned about someone’s opinion of me?
The only opinion I should be seeking is God’s. I want to please Him in all I do, and though I may still seek human advice, it’s God’s calling that I will follow. Are my ears open to hear His voice above all the racket of the world?
I think this attitude of serving God and toiling night and day for His pleasure sets apart some of these women of the past. Could it set me apart too? Could I be heartily committed to God’s causes, not fearing the difficult labor or the criticism of others?
Is God calling you to step out and follow Him above the noise of everyone else’s opinions and die to selfishness giving Him all of your days?
This devotional was first published on InternetCafeDevotions.com.
.
About the Author
Heather Cox spends her days sweeping up cheerios, playing with play-dough and reading brightly illustrated books. Somehow, she manages to squeeze prayer in between the craziness that is motherhood, marriage and ministry. She calls herself a "Mommy Monk" because she is attempting to find inner solitude in the daily self-denial of motherhood.
Her family lives in the middle of farm country, surrounded by lakes and woods, which they eagerly explore. Heather's husband is a marriage and family counselor and an avid outdoorsman. They have three terrific children ages 7, 5 and 3. Read more from Heather at mommymonk.blogspot.com.
Cruciform Music - This Month's Featured Song
"Burning In My Soul" by Brett Younker