this poem about parenting a kid with special needs? Have a read, it's great. Well we live in Holland in our house, sometimes we get to visit other places but other times it's firmly in Holland! At the moment we are having one of our Holland patches. Sometimes it's better to go along with some of it and just limit other behaviours. The other day Reuben decided that his teddy Rocky was going to have a birthday and turn six.
Chrissy came home from school and said, I can't believe I'm going to make a cake for a teddy. I told her not to worry, as I made a tiny piece of grilled cheese toast for the teddy's breakfast. We were just laughing about that when we heard David outside singing Happy Birthday to the teddy! You don't have to be crazy to life in our house, but it helps!
But everyday should be a birthday of each day we are alive! Its just a good excuse to eat more cake and ice cream!
Deb, maybe I don't read your blog closely enough, or haven't been reading it for long enough because I didn't know you parent in 'Holland'! I love those words of the link you gave us. Very useful and insightful, I will pass it on. Thank you.
You really are a super mum! Have a good day, Deb the lovely.
I parent in Holland too - my sweet 11 year old has high-functioning autism. I still sometimes wish I was in Italy, but we are firmly ensconced in Holland at the moment.
Love that poem! I think Roo has simply captured the importance that there is SOMETHING worth celebrating every day and if not there's a teddy who will always oblige.
sweet boy!!! what a wonderful family to go along with this just for him. i bet he was thrilled with that cake. it looks so yummy...i love that you have already had to have the coke and chocolate.
He seems like such a sweet boy! Maybe he has other teddies who can turn 6 next! hahahahahaha!
Thanks for this Deb, I'd never read it. I've been trying to write about our trips to Holland (and a few other not-so-nice places) but it never quite comes out right. Maybe one day.