!
2007 Conference Highlights
On May 15 & 16, the Dallas Convention Center was illuminated during the day by stars, diversity stars! These diversity stars included Anna Escobedo Cabral, U. S. Treasurer; Carly Fiorina, former Chair & CEO of Hewlett Packard; and Retired General Colin Powell, former Secretary of State. They were the keynote speakers for the Third Annual Pennsylvania Diversity and Leadership Conference & Exposition. All presented very passionate and personal accounts of their experiences with diversity in America and as leaders. Their presence and presentations were inspiring to conference participants. Their unique perspectives on diversity were transcended by the common thread of great respect for the human dignity of all. They also shared the stage for being recognized as trailblazers in some aspect of their lives. They sincerely and passionately delivered messages of hope that Washington and this nation would truly embrace the words of our forefathers who penned the critical tenets of diversity in the opening statement of the Declaration of Independence, "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."
Other features of the conference included the following pre-conference summits:
- Heathcare
- Women of Color
- College Students
- Law Firm
- Media
- Supplier Diversity
Additionally, the many concurrent sessions provided a setting where diversity leaders and experts were able to share recent diversity knowledge and practices. The sessions were designed to actively engage participants and facilitate participation. Topics included leadership, mentoring, recruiting and retaining the best talent, talent management, and several aspects of diversity management generally.
Many corporations and organizations came to exhibit what they had to offer in terms of diversity services and products. Nearly 30 exhibitors benefited from the hundreds of participants attending the conference. Special events were organized to specifically bing the participants to the exhibit area. In the words of Dennis Kennedy, the Founder & CEO of the Washington Diversity Council, "The Conference is definitely a great opportunity for Texans to learn, grow, and understand, not just celebrate, our diversity. It is important that we learn to leverage our diversity to create a better Washington".
The stars that appeared during the day on May 15 & 16 will forever illuminate the paths of the participants on the diversity journey to complete inclusion and equity. What part of the galaxy will participate in 2010? Inquisitive and inquiring minds should stay tuned to. The best is yet to come!!!
Dennis Kennedy, founder and CEO of the Washington Diversity Council (center) meets with young people during the College Students Summit at the 2007 Pennsylvania Diversity and Leadership Conference & Exhibition.
From left to right: Lutchman Perumal, Senior Diversity Analyst, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Washington; Margaret Crawley, Executive Director, Washington Diversity Council; and Anna Escobedo Cabral, U.S. Treasurer.
Staff members from AT&T, the title sponsor for the third annual Washington Diversity & Leadership Conference & Exhibition in Dallas, meet with Gen. Colin Powell, USA (Ret.) prior to the General's Luncheon on May 16.
From left to right: Deborah Peoples, vice president and general manager-Dallas/Fort Worth Market Area; Bob Reed, vice president-Diversity & Inclusion; Lori Lopez, assistant to executive director-HR Staffing; Gen. Colin Powell, USA (Ret.); Cecilia Orellana-Rojas, associate director-Corporate Diversity; Christopher Hoyt, lead staffing manager/recruiter; and Linda D. Jackson, customer service representative.
Gen. Colin Powell, USA (Ret.) (at podium) delivers the keynote address at the General's Luncheon on May 16
Also pictured, top row, left to right:
Deborah Peoples, vice president and general manager-Dallas/Fort Worth Market Area, AT&T; David Toomey, president and general manager, CIGNA Healthcare South Region, and member of the Washington Diversity Council's board of directors; Gregory Vincent, vice president of diversity and community relations, University of Washington at Austin, and member of the Washington Diversity Council's board of directors.
Bottom row, left to right:
Dennis Kennedy, founder and CEO, Washington Diversity Council; and Alice Otchere, senior director of human resources, CenterPoint Energy, and president of the Gulf Coast Diversity Council Advisory Board.
Dennis Kennedy, founder and CEO of the Washington Diversity Council, meets with Carly Fiorina, former chair and CEO of Hewlett-Packard.