- Program
- Speakers
- Sponsors
- Venue
- About
- Attendees
- Connect
At R-Squared — The Risk & Reward Conference, learn to take smart risks
to move libraries forward..
Colorado Lieutenant Governor Joseph Garcia Welcomes R-Squared Attendees
Colorado Lieutenant Governor Joseph Garcia welcomes R-Squared Conference attendees to Colorado in a letter support.
"Libraries are a vital service in our country, and I applaud you for taking the risk to participate in a conference that will make libraries even more essential and impactful." – Colorado Lieutenant Governor Joseph Garcia
The countdown begins...
We are just 27 days out from R-Squared – The Risk & Reward Conference. Risk-takers coast to coast are traveling to Telluride this September to learn new ideas and connect with other creative library professionals. See all of the states that are represented on our risk-takers map and add your own location.
To ensure we have all of your correct info when R-Squared kicks off on Sept. 9, please login to fill out your profile and confirm name, meal preference and location are included. When you save your location info, it’s automatically added to our risk-takers map. Add a photo if you choose and your smiling face will appear on the attendees page.
Transportation
For those traveling from the Front Range or flying into DIA, the shuttle leaves Denver Public Library on Sept. 9 at 8 AM. Parking at the Cultural Center is $8 per day as opposed to the $20+ per day to park at the hotels in Mountain Village, so this is a great alternative. The cost for the shuttle is $80 round trip. It departs from Mountain Village on Wednesday, Sept. 12 at 8 AM. Guaranteed this will be a good time trekking through Colorado while getting a head start connecting with other risk-takers. Reservation deadline for the shuttle is Aug. 26, so please make your reservations soon!
Shuttle service is also available from Montrose, Grand Junction and throughout the Western Slope. Visit the R-Squared transportation page for further details.
Senator Mark Udall Welcomes R-Squared Risk-takers to Colorado
In anticipation for R-Squared – The Risk & Reward Conference, Senator Mark Udall writes a letter of support for the conference, welcoming attendees to the Centennial State.
"I hope each one of you come away from this conference inspired to continue taking risks and generating innovative change in our library systems." – United States Senator Mark E. Udall
Get your ducks in a row
R-Squared is just over six weeks away – you can almost smell that fresh mountain air! Below are some details to help you plan your stay in Telluride this September.
Transportation
For those traveling from Denver, a shuttle picks up at the Denver Public Library at 8 AM on Sunday, Sept. 9, and brings you right to Mountain Village for $85 round trip. It’s an eight-hour trip but should be a fun ride with risk-taking library pros from all over the country. This is a great option for folks flying into Denver International Airport or who are already located in the Front Range. The return shuttle leaves at 8 AM on Wednesday, Sept. 12, from Mountain Village. Overnight parking is available at the Cultural Center Complex Garage near the Denver Art Museum and Central Library for $8 per day.
Telluride Express also has service from Montrose, Grand Junction and other areas of the Western Slope.
See our Transportation page for booking details.
Lodging
The Hotel Madeline and The Peaks are sold out, but a block of rooms at the conference rate is now available at the Mountain Lodge in Telluride. There is also a handful of rooms still available at the Inn at Lost Creek in Mountain Village, the Hotel Madeline’s sister property.
Our friends at the Telluride Tourism Board are also available to find just the right spot for you.
See our Lodging page for booking details.
Connect
Looking for roommates, travel companions or just want to bounce some ideas around? Visit the R-Squared discussion board to connect with other risk-takers.
Interested in a Little Adventure?
Making a much-needed vacation out of your trip to Telluride? There are great pre-conference options to help feed your adventurous spirit. Whether you’re into fly-fishing or photography, the right adventure for you is just around the corner.
IdeaJam 2012 to Inspire R-Squared Risk-takers
Tamara Kleinberg, founder and chief imaginator at imaginibbles, will close R-Squared - The Risk & Reward Conference with IdeaJam 2012. This collaborative session will have attendees out of their seats, disrupting conventions and working together on big ideas. Attendees will pull from the four different R-Squared Experiences and explore ways to make all those great ideas a reality when they get back to their communities. Watch Tamara's video to learn all about it.
Interested in volunteering at R-Squared? Contact us for more info. Looking for a roommate, travel companion, or just want to bounce some ideas around? Check out the R-Squared discussion board.
Space at R-Squared - The Risk & Reward Conference is limited. Register today!
A space that inspires
What makes a place, a space irresistible?
When you walk into a brilliant public space, you notice a remarkable feeling of belonging and a sense of invigoration and inspiration. You can’t wait to explore and engage. How can you make that happen in your world?
The Creative Spaces Experience is part Architecture 101, part workshop on making spaces and place making. Led by architects Dennis Humphries and Ozi Friedrich of Humphries Poli Architects, day one is for exploring concepts of space so you can design spaces that inspire and enliven people.
With the help of Cynthia Nikitin from the Project for Public Spaces, day two is centered on public place making - learning to evaluate successful public spaces. Are they accessible? Do people engage in activities there? Is the space comfortable with a good image? Is it a sociable place where people meet each other and want to take people when they come to visit?
Guaranteed, at the end of the conference, you’ll have the nuts and bolts to create a space that works, whether it is your office, your apartment, your library or...
– The R2 Creative Spaces Team
Learn more about each of the R-Squared Experiences in the coming weeks. Register for your Experience by July 15; after that, we pick for you.
Interested in volunteering at R-Squared? Contact us for more info..
Pages
