Medvedev to showdown with Goffin for Wimbledon fourth round spot
11th seed Daniil Medvedev faces 21st seed David Goffin last on Court Two at Wimbledon today.
Playing in the third round of Wimbledon for a second time, Medvedev goes in favourite against the Belgian, whom he beat in straight sets at this year’s Australian Open. This was the first time the two had played each other, with the Russian taking it 6-2 7-6 6-3. The win gave him his best ever performance at a Grand Slam. In round four he was able to take the second set off number one seed Novak Djokovic in a four sets defeat.
His opponent Goffin is looking to make the fourth round at SW19 for a third time, after he managed this in 2015 and 2016. But loses to Stan Wawrinka and Milos Raonic have meant the Belgian has never made the quarters in London.
The man from Liege has looked impressive of recent, being one of just three men in the last two years to take a set of Rafael Nadal at the French Open. He took the third set off the 12 time Roland Garros champion in a four set third round defeat. The 28 year old looked comfortable on grass last month, when he made the quarter finals of S-Hertogenbosch in the Holland, and the final at Halle where he was defeated by ten time champion Roger Federer.
A win for Goffin would give him sole ownership of the 5th most wins for a Belgian at Wimbledon, passing Jacques Peten and Paul de Borman who he is currently tied on ten with.
13th in world Medvedev also reached round three last year, losing to Frenchman Adrian Mannarino. Despite losing in the first round of Stuttgart last month, the Moscow man did make the semi-finals at Queens beating Verdasco, Pouille and Schwartzman en route. Though going a set up was not enough to topple Gilles Simon to make his first Queens final.
The winner of the tie will automatically be made favourite to make the quarter finals, as they play the winner of unseeded Thomas Fabbiano and unseeded Fernando Verdasco in round four.
Daniil Medvedev (Russia)
Age: 23
ATP ranking:13
Wimbledon seeding: 11
Career Wimbledon record: 5-2
Career Grand Slam record: 11-10
Career grass court record: 18-11
David Goffin (Belgium)
Age: 28
ATP ranking: 23
Wimbledon seeding: 21
Career Wimbledon record: 10-6
Career Grand Slam record: 47-27
Career grass court record: 22<<