So, it seems that our long national nightmare is over. No, it’s not anything important like the war in Afghanistan (forgot about that, didn’t ya?). Today, America is rejoicing over the fact that we are getting back the shitty union NFL referees to replace the ever-shittier replacement referees.
We all saw what a sham this turned out to be. Some of us were pointing this out after Week 1. But it took a debacle to happen on national television robbing one of the most popular teams in the league to get any action to resolve this mess. Some of us predicted that a month before the season started…and we knew exactly why as well..
Well, well, well…looky what happened. Granted, another blown call pales in comparison to the tragedy it took to end the last NFL-Referees labor stoppage….
…but it seems that when Kommissar Goodell gets 70,00 angry voice-mails, the blow-dries at ESPN who usually line up to lap up his ginger-spooge turn on him, and even President Potato-Head weighed in (another thing I told you would happen), it is time to abandon the union-busting plan and admit defeat.
Make no mistake, anything short of making the union referees crawl is an unmitigated loss for the Kommissar and the NFL owners. Which is exactly why the apology issued by the Kommissar today rings about as hollow as a half-deflated beach.
So, now he gives a shit about the fans. In other news, Goodell only wants to put the tip in, and he will still respect me in the morning…
Bullshit, you have a call on the white courtesy phone…but it gets better.
“We’re sorry to have to put fans through that,” Goodell said. “Sometimes you have to go through something like that in the short term for the right agreement for the long term.”
Uh huh. Both regular Dubsism collaborator Ryan Meehan and I hit on this before as well, and nothing has changed in the last seven weeks. [J-Dub]…
I know this starting sound a bit “nah nah nah boo boo,” I told you so,” but the real point here is that when the Kommissar promised you he would only put the tip in, he didn’t tell that meant it would be in the back of your throat after he grabbed your hips and rammed it there from the back way.
During this process, Goodell never once gave a shit about the fans, until they showed up at the gates of the NFL castle, complete with their torches and pitchforks. The following blatant lie proves that.
Goodell insisted the two sides were already in “intense negotiations” the last two weeks and that the Monday night mess was not a major factor in completing a deal. “It may have pushed the parties along,” he said.
Let’s see…the two sides weren’t even talking to each other on Monday, the Monday Night Fiasco happens, and by Thursday we have a deal in priciple…”may have,” my ass. The Kommissar and the owners panicked, and for good reason.
However, in true Goodell form, that isn’t the biggest dick-move he pulls in his so-called apology; he goes full-on Level 10 Dick when he defends the replacement referees by throwing the union guys under the NFL bus..”
There’s only two types of guys who would say something like that before the union he’s just insulted has even voted; an idiot, or an unconscionable dick? Which is Goodell? You be the judge.
Reblogged this on Sports Blog Movement.
I still think Goodell and Gary Bettman would make a wonderful heel tag team in the WWE or whatever the hell they call it now. And their ring entrance music has to be Der Kommissar by After the Fire featuring a dead Falco. They’d be more hated than Nikolai Volkoff and The Iron Sheik.
A) You had me at “Dead Falco.”
B) I will heartily support ANYTHING that involves the possibility of Goodell getting his teeth slammed out with a steel folding chair.
C) How about the owner of the Edmonton Oilers, who in the midst of a lockout is threatening to move the team to Seattle…what a tool.
Since I am quoted in this, you’d think that I would say that is the best line of the article. It isn’t. The most important thing you can take from this is –.”
He DID put them out there without the training and the resources. They WEREN’T held to a set schedule where the replacement refs had to sit there and go over hours upon hours of questionable calls in recent history, testing them on a regular basis to make sure that they would be the best they could be. That’s what fucking grinds my gears Dubs.
Know who is lying to you, but above all use common sense.
Meehan
An Unconscionable Dick would be my answer and we’ve got way too many of them running around these days.