Got to Dance judge Adam Garcia, has returned to London’s West End stage in Tap Dogs – the internationally acclaimed dance show created by Olivier Award winning choreographer Dein Perry. The Aussie actor took time out from tap dancing to share his holiday experiences with CD Traveller
What do you like to do on holiday?
I either like to visit old cities or places of outstanding natural beauty. I’m not into spending all day lying on a sun lounger: I like to get out and about and explore.
Where did you last go?
Marrakech – the pink city. As it happened, I had an ankle injury so I did flop in the sun by the pool – a lot.
Do you know where you’re going this year?
I don’t. This year is proving to be very busy and I haven’t had time to firm up any definite travel plans. I am going to try and visit a friend in Stockholm this summer but it will need to be well planned: I get 48 hours off between Tap Dogs‘ end of week Sunday show and the next one on Tuesday night so I’ll have to stick to a tight travel schedule.
Of all the places you’ve been to, what was your favourite and why?
Wow. Umm… I do like island holidays. When I was a boy, my family took a trip to Heron Island in the Great Barrier Reef. Heron Island has a bird and turtle sanctuary and so the island did smell strongly of guano but one got used to that. When I went, Heron Island was relatively untouched by tourism and there was so much wildlife to observe that I was in heaven.
Which destination do you wish to travel but haven’t been?
Yellowstone National Park – I’m working on it!
In your own country, what would you recommend tourists see that isn’t in the travel guides?
I would probably say that finding one of the zillion empty beaches up & down the coasts or else driving out to the farmlands is pretty great.
How do you plan your holiday?
I really just pick a destination, maybe a hotel & then make it up once I get there.
How often do you go away?
Typically two or three times a year.
Who do you travel with?
My Mother. We have travelled to some amazing places together –The Galapagos Islands, cloud forests in Ecuador & the Amazon Basin, Svalbard in the Arctic Circle – to look at the wildlife. It’s a shared passion. My Mother is an inspirational traveler and has been everywhere. Her next trip is Madagascar which I can’t join her on & am very envious. That island hasn’t long to last.
Where do you see tourism in your country in 10 years time?
I’m fairly confident Australia will be a firm favourite with tourists in 10 years – particularly if plane travel gets quicker. Its check list of essential experiences remains as strong as ever and shows no sign of diminishing.
Thanks Adam!
Tap Dogs, starring Adam Garcia, plays at the Novello Theatre until September 5 on Tuesdays to Thursdays at 8pm, with Friday performances at 6pm and 9pm, Saturday performances at 5pm and 8pm, and Sunday performances at 3pm. Tickets are priced from £17.50 – £49.50 and can be purchased at. Group discounts are also available.