!!
posted by xxaeraxx
added 6 hours 18 min ago
LOVE IT!!!!
posted by Emzyy.Ox
added 6 hours 48 min ago
Hey =] xIve only relly started 2 become interested in modelin wen i was lookin at sugar n saw alll teh kl clothes the models wer wearin! it looks so much fun =) i really want 2 try it, so if i do gd in this i might mabey get a carer or somethin if i was gd enough? i reely hope so =] lol :L bubi x
posted by 10KaTeMoSs
added 7 hours 39 min ago
I would love to be able to model... I always wanted to and want o when I´ll be older... I feel like my life is boring... Woul be gr8!!! P.S.: I´m Thin, pretty, look gud with make-up on and people tell me I look like kate Moss... If you´ll choose me thenk you very much you won´t regret...
posted by nearlyyour...
added 10 hours 40 min ago
I have done it before. It was so much fun, though I didn't like the clothes I was in.
posted by -purrfect-...
added 11 hours 6 min ago
It gives all types of girls the oppurtunity to model.
posted by laauraaaa
added 1 day 3 hours ago
I Really Hope I Can Model, I Want To Be A Model When Im Older But I cant See It Happening Cause theres Loads Of Girls That Are Prettier Them Me, So I Guess This Is My Only Chance Really :/ :) LoveYouu x3
posted by Micha
added 1 day 3 hours ago
=O I would LOVE to model for sugar !!x never done it before but it would be fun (:
posted by Zoeee
added 1 day 9 hours ago
I was scouted for Miss Teen Queen UK and got all the forms and everything but i didnt go in for it i would love to have a photoshoot though it would be amazing! x
posted by SexyPinkGa...
added 1 day 11 hours ago
I Would love to feature in your magazine to be a model! I also have experience in modeling, my agency is starnow xxx
posted by LaurenRose...
added 1 day 11 hours ago
Id love to model for your magazine!
posted by LauraJones...
added 1 day 12 hours ago
i would absolutely LLLOOOVVVEEE to model in sugar.!? X
posted by lisamarie
added 1 day 14 hours ago
i love beauty and fashion and would loveeeee to model for sugar im irish
posted by lisamarie
added 1 day 14 hours ago
hapyy days...!!!!!!
posted by lisamarie
added 1 day 14 hours ago
i just love the magazine and everything in it
posted by kks42
added 2 days 1 hour ago
ooooooo i wud love to model for the mag!
posted by sammybabes
added 2 days 3 hours ago
MAKE ME PRETTY XXX
posted by Boolou
added 2 days 5 hours ago
I Well Want To Do Ths But Its Been Kinda Funny And Not Lettin Me Help...
posted by Lilzee
added 2 days 5 hours ago
(Y)
posted by Heather-BA...
added 2 days 5 hours ago
i wna be one :)
posted by LauraJones...
added 2 days 6 hours ago
i would so love to model in sugar magazine(:
posted by jean_louis...
added 2 days 6 hours ago
I'd love to model in Sugar please chose me it would be a dream come true :)
posted by jean_louis...
added 2 days 6 hours ago
I really would LOVE to model in Sugar, I am such a fan of Kate Moss and Rimmel! I love America's and Britain's next top Model! Make my dream come true please!
posted by misspipa
added 2 days 7 hours ago
oh, yeh, i edit my settings. whoops. (: well, you people who've been picked are luckky! (: best of luck everyone (: xxx
posted by misspipa
added 2 days 7 hours ago
love it. i'd love to model in sugar!! but i've already registered and can't remmeber if i ticked the box!! arrghh! now what?! xx
posted by BalletDanc...
added 2 days 8 hours ago
ah not a bad ide=)
posted by x.LittlePi...
added 2 days 8 hours ago
dis is so kool im soooooo gna enter!=D xD
posted by sxebeth-x
added 2 days 9 hours ago
i really want 2 b in the sugar magazine every1 who's appeared in them r super pretty and r sooo lucky 2 have been in it!!
posted by xkattiix
added 2 days 9 hours ago
i so wanna enter xx
posted by shivani
added 2 days 9 hours ago
modelling 4 sugar is the best oopportunity u'll get!! i'd love to model 4 sugar, i've been scouted 4 modelling before but was too young, how old do u have to be here?x
posted by jellybubbl...
added 2 days 10 hours ago
If you tick do they like email you to tell you that you can feature in it or what?