It's always ready like to hear something that comes in combination Vignesh Shivan and Anirudh. Be it their association for complete album like Naanum Rowdy Dhaan or other tracks where Vignesh Benz the lyrics, it's been a great delight to the listeners for the packaging of fascination they deliver. Now the duo is back with their latest outing ' Thaana Serndha Kootam' featuring Suriya and Keerthy Suresh in lead roles. K.E. Gnanavel Raja studio Green films bankrolled this movie, which happens to be a remake of superhit Hindi movie Special 26. The album has 5 songs based on different genres.
Naana Thana
Singers: Anirudh
Lyrics: Vignesh Shivn
It's a complete song that takes you through the exciting phase of of moments in love. The lyrics has purity with a peak of playfulness boy's perspective. In fact the song has already been a favourite of town people from the time it was launched as a single track. There is a lot of energy in the song right on the first second and the musical components or so much invigorating to the senses. Anirudh has picked the style of that Hindi stage performance where the fill-ins with harmonium and vocalism are evident.
Sodakku
Singers: Antony Dasan
Lyrics: Vignesh Shivn
The song needs no introduction as it has already through to be a strong winner in the charts. The song has highly enthusiastic appeal from musical team. On a precise note, this happens to be the first ever fast paced folk song for Suriya in the recent times. The high level energy pumping percussion and unparalleled rendition by Antony Dasan makes the song more enjoyable. Not to miss the interludes that comes with fast running notes on Veena, which is exotically unparalleled.
Thaana Serndha Koottam
Singers: Anirudh and Vignesh Shivn
Lyrics: Vignesh Shivn
The song has lots of values on the lyrical part and it looks like this would be placed during a crucial moment of the movie. The distorted guitar on the backdrops along with the rhythmic accompaniment add more sense to the peppiness. The kind of rendition by both Anirudh and Vignesh belong to a unique panache. This could get more prominence with the visual presentation of the song.
Engae Endru Povadhu
Singers: Anirudh and Shakthishree Gopalan
Lyrics: Vignesh Shivn
There are certain times, where a particular song manages to get beyond the premise of a movie and touch us unconditionally. It is decided by the theme of the song, the lyrical Phrases and of course the musical presentation that would imbibe to our senses. This song brings out such traits in a great way that the song instantly appeals to our attention. The lyrical lines are so much simple and yet compelling that was down a lot of emotions. Anirudh has always been a master of such musical style and it just enables the song to get propelled to a greater stroke.
Peela Peela
Singers: Jassie Gift, Nakash Aziz and Mali
Lyrics: Vignesh Shivn
Innovative lyrics and fun filled music makes the song click well at the very initial level you start listening to it. As known to many, TSK is set in the time period of 80s and henceforth, the lyrical words used in the song that includes Ujala, Rasna and few more terms that were prominent during those times gets us connected easily.
On the whole, Thaana Serndha Koottam delivers a decent package of music that will definitely be the best in the careers of Suriya, Vignesh Shivn and Anirudh respectively. The songs have the best feel of high energy, emotions, fun, joy and everything that it needs to impress listeners.
Verdict : Suriya-Anirudh-Vignesh Shivn trio sparkle in this Chartbuster with great music.
#ThaanaSerndhaKoottam #VigneshShivn #Suriya #KeerthySuresh #studioGreen #Anirudh #ThaanaSerndhaKoottamMusicReview
However been one of the top heroines in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam, Keerthy Suresh has been well...
Directed by ‘Uriyadi’ fame Director Vijay Kumar and bankrolled by himself under the banner of...
Produced under the grand banner of ‘Lyca Productions’, the shooting of K V Anand’s directorial...