Gay Guide To Sitges, Spain
A selection of members from Sitges.
Free membership !
Free membership includes messaging, access to audio/video chatrooms and unlimited searching.
Sitges is well known for being an extremely gay-friendly seaside resort and has long been a popular destination amongst LGBT travellers. The town has plenty going for it, with a pleasantly warm climate, fantastic beaches, a number of museums to visit, and plenty of activities to do. Plus, it is situated only 35km to the southwest of Barcelona and so you can always take a trip into the city if you want to explore more of Spain.
However, the chances are there will be more than enough in Sitges to keep you busy. If you’re looking for events specifically targeted at the gay community, you should visit Sitges in February, when the Sitges Gay Carnival takes place. It is basically a huge, wild party held over a number of days and nights throughout the streets of Sitges. It attracts huge numbers of partygoers who come to see the various parades, drag shows and who get to eat and drink everything on offer in the locality.
In June, you can enjoy the Sitges Gay Pride festival. The Party on the Promenade is a particularly popular draw, with the beach front transformed into a gay village for five days. You can enjoy events such as Mr Gay Sitges and the Sitges Fashion Show. You can listen to numerous DJs perform and take in the party atmosphere. There will also be an opportunity to watch the main Pride Parade with a large number of floats making their way through the streets of the town and to be able to appreciate the warm, friendly atmosphere.
Sitges is also home to the International Film Festival and the International Tango Festival, whilst car enthusiasts will no doubt find the Sitges Car Rally to be an exciting prospect. All in all, Sitges makes an excellent holiday destination, as there are many activities to do and events held in this very welcoming town.
If you have anything we can add to our Sitges Gay Guide please contact us.
Caffmos Business and Travel
Advertise your gay friendly holiday accommodation or business for free on Caffmos.