Morty Yalovsky, BSc’65, MSc’68, PhD’77, first joined McGill as a professor in the Faculty of Management in 1974. In addition to his academic responsibilities, over the years he has assumed several senior academic administrative roles in the University. Within the Faculty, he has served as associate dean (research and PhD program), interim dean, and associate dean (academic). He has also been the director of the joint PhD program in management (McGill, HEC, Concordia, UQAM). He is currently the coordinator for the Desautels Faculty of Management’s Operations Management area. For the University, he has served as dean of Continuing Education as well as vice-principal (administration and finance) and as a member of many University-level committees, including Senate and Academic Planning and Policy Committee. His research interests include statistical methodology, forecasting methods, and modeling, and he has consulted in the areas of applied statistics and information technology for several leading Canadian corporations.
Robyn Wiltshire came to McGill from the private sector in 1982. She holds a bachelor of commerce degree with a major in finance from Concordia University. In her career at McGill, Robyn has held positions in both administrative and academic units, including in Finance, Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies, the Departments of Economics, Political Science and Psychology, and in the Faculty of Arts and the Faculty of Science. Since 2007, she has been director of the Office of the Deputy Provost (Student Life and Learning). In her 27 years at McGill, Robyn has served the University in a number of capacities: as a senator and a member of the Senate Steering Committee, as chair of the Management Forum Steering Committee, as a sexual harassment officer, and as co-chair of the Faculty and Staff Fund, for which she was awarded the David L. Johnson Award for Leadership in 2000. Robyn also served as an area leader in the 21st Century Campaign. She sings with McGill’s infamous in-house rock band, The Diminished Faculties.
Peter Knox, BSc(Agr)’74, thoroughly enjoyed his student days at Macdonald Campus. So much so, that he joined the campus’s support staff right after graduation. He held a number of positions within Administrative Services, prior to joining Facilities Operations in 1991. As supervisor, property maintenance, at Macdonald Campus, he is responsible for grounds, roads and facilities maintenance and safety, special events arrangements, and liaising with other units. Actively involved in campus renewal, fire prevention, major events and campus activities, Peter received the first Macdonald Campus Award of Excellence for Macdonald administrative and support staff in 2007. Always willing to volunteer, Peter is no stranger to the greater McGill community. He frequently participates in University committees and alumni events. The longest serving member of the Macdonald branch of the McGill Alumni Association (35 years), he has held all executive positions, including president (two terms) and Homecoming chair. For his dedication, he received the MAA Distinguished Service Award in 1999. Peter has resided in Campus Housing for many years, leading some to say that Peter literally lives and breathes Macdonald and McGill.
Josh Redel is President of the Students' Society of McGill University (SSMU) and studying for his Bachelor of Software Engineering degree. He was previously active in McGill’s Engineering Undergraduate Society (EUS), firstly as Vice-President (Communications) and then President. Josh has also been involved in several large projects with the EUS and the Faculty of Engineering. These include renovation of two large student spaces, the installation of a new digital signage system, and a new student outreach program that has increased student turnout and participation in many EUS events and activities.
Reconnect with Alumni