It took the commitment of many worshipers to grow their own building.
Three years before that first service, members held weekly "cottage" prayer meetings in members' homes.
That was in 1955, and during the next few months', attendance began to grow. A year later, they organized a Sunday school at the YMCA, and the Missionary Society was started in September 1956.
On Mother's Day 1957, the first shovel of dirt was turned to build the church at 1200 E.14th.
The Religious Society of Friends, commonly called Quakers, unites in affirming the immediacy of Christ's teaching. They hold that believers receive divine guidance from an inward light, without the aid of intermediaries or external rites, according to the Britannica Encyclopedia.
With roots dating back to 17th century England, the church took the name Religious Society of Friends, because only the Church of England could use the word church in its title.
There are quiet Quakers who attend meetings every Sunday and observe at least 45 minutes of silence. If someone chooses to speak, they can.
"The Friends people around here are very Christ-centered," said the Rev. Gary Getting, pastor of the local church. "Quiet meetings are un-programmed. Our services are programs with pastoral leadership."
When Delmar and Grace Ferguson recall memories of raising their family, it's framed around the Hutchinson Friends Church. They are charter members who can recall the excitement of building their church building.
"All the members did the finish work and painting; we worked during the day, and at night we were at the church," Grace Ferguson said. "Roy and Anna Quick were the ones who had the vision. Roy had a pair of coveralls, and they were so covered in paint they would stand alone."
The church was an extension of their life, Ferguson said. At the time, they lived in Haven and would drive over to Hutchinson with their large family of six to work on the building and to worship.
"Through the past 50 years, we have prayed together, played together, laughed together, cried together, and grown together as a church family," Cindy Moore, granddaughter of Roy and Anna Quick, wrote in the church history. "Many people have passed through our doors and have come to be a part of the kingdom of God through the ministry in Hutchinson."
The church members are expecting about 200 people who have been part of the church's life over the past 50 years for the May 25 celebration service at 3 p.m.
"Plans are to share memories, special music, slide show of pictures of the past 50 years, and a catered dinner," Getting said.
The evening will be capped off with the showing of the classic movie "Friendly Persuasion," about Quaker family during the Civil War.