Explore Every Layer
This year’s theme encourages you to ‘explore every layer’ with us. This conference is your chance to hone in on your speciality in one of our 10+ hands-on masterclasses led by experts in their fields while also expanding your horizons in sessions that dive into topics unfamiliar to you. We believe developers are at their best when they step into unexplored territories within the full stack of software development, even if the topic doesn’t correspond to their own expertise.
The program, curated by a committee of developers and architects, will cover a range of topics from front-end to back-end, including designing APIs, Event Storming, Ethics & Security, and IoT. No matter what you work on on a daily basis, GOTO Berlin is your chance to expand your horizons, sharpen your skills and get a grasp on what’s coming next in the world of technology.
Designing.
Starting the Journey
Artificial Intelligence, Robotic Process Automation, Immersive Experience, Zettabyte, 3D Alteration, Quantum Computing…
Your company is successful but still stuck in the 20th century? You are seeking change in this ever evolving world but you just don’t know where to start? Join the topic of Starting the Journey to find out what is necessary to bring your business into the 21st century. Discover just how far you need to take technology to make your company even more successful. Find people who will help you, answer your questions and dispel your doubts.
Saving the World
Many smart gadgets are taking over analogue ones. They are consuming a lot of energy, polluting the environment and creating millions of tons of e-waste. Whether technology is destroying the world or helping mankind, is still an ongoing debate within our society. What if you use technology for the good like last year's keynote by Jaideep Bansal? Bringing energy and education to remote areas to save the villages and cultures. Let’s make these positives outweigh the negatives and save the world!
AI for Developers
In recent years, we have seen a huge increase in AI innovations prompted by vast amounts of data, the cloud, innovations in algorithms and more. There is still a stark contrast between the number of Data Scientist and the need for AI professionals. Therefor developers will have to implement AI technology in their professional and personal projects as it continues to permeate just about every industry. So how can developers begin to design AI applications that engage customers, optimize operations and transform products?
Where should you start? Get to know the different AI frameworks and APIs which will enable you to learn new skills and stay relevant in the work space.. How have our conversations changed in the past year? In the past five years? How will they change in the future?
Event Storming
Due to the sheer scale of data being created every day, there is no real limit to what businesses can benefit from. Data now comes in many forms, ranging from website cookies to social media posts, IoTs to cameras and microphones. This means that processing this information got a lot harder. The unstructured nature of data in the modern world has led to the rise of ever-more advanced analytics programs attempting to make sense of the data flood. When making a decision, what is it you rely on? With technology being intrinsic in every aspect of business, making decisions based on hard facts of data should lie at the heart of any organization. As you scale, your security needs to change as your data is at greater risk of attacks, theft and malicious activities. Find out about encryption, firewalls and BI tools for clouds to keep your Data safe. Learn how to create a flexible end-to-end big data security philosophy for any organization.
Ethics & Security?
Developer Productivity
In the rapidly changing and evolving tech ecosystem, it is vital that you can add value, increase your development speed, and cut out as many of the cumbersome, boring and repetitive tasks as possible. Between tailoring your own strict schedule, eliminating distractions and preserving your mental health, what other habits, methods and methodologies will help developer productivity? Agile, Scrum, Kanban? Is there a be all end all method to upping developer productivity? Fact is, we must continuously adapt to constant changes.
Smart Things create new unforeseen risks, with security being the most prevalent.
Coding User Interfaces
User interfaces are everywhere. Most obvious, of course, if you are making apps for ‘real end users’. Have you ever opened a website or an app and immediately thought something like "Whoa, too much red!" or "I can barely read this light grey on white"? Then you know that designing or coding user interfaces is a profession that needs a lot of insight into the human perception of colours, shapes and even sound. How do you make complex user interfaces simple to use? What programming language should you use? Which are the newest trends of UI design? User interfaces is something any software developer should care about as it is are not only on your computer screens but also part of IoT and smart devices. This topic is meant to give an understanding of these and other details of coding user interfaces.