Note: To protect the privacy of our members, e-mail addresses have been removed from the archived messages. As a result, some links may be broken.
Hi Gail and All,
I teach in a district that is stringently non-denominational about
every major holiday. We don't use the H-word (Halloween) or the C-
word (you can guess what that is) and we still manage to do nice
observances around this time of year. How about celebrating the
winter season and peace on earth? These are themes that are timely
and non-denominational. Winter animal themes are also appropriate;
doves, foxes, rabbits, moose, deer, etc. Try a winter weather
approach and do imagery about snow, crystals, and the need for
bonfires, etc.
A nice, quick, simple, kid-friendly gift to make are bird-feeder pine
cones. Get nice pine cones and drill a small hole in the large end.
Insert an eye hook and a pretty cord to hang them up. Spray a
mixture of diluted gelatin and water (gelatin can be found in the
canning section at the market) and then roll them in bird seed. I
buy 50 lb. bags of bird seed for under $10 at Walmart. We then
package these gifts in cellophane with a ribbon. Everyone really
loves them and they make a nice ecological gift to the birds. By the
way, I saw this idea in the Smith and Hawkins winter catalog last
winter and they cost big bucks!!
For cards and wrapping paper, try printing with oil-based non-
hardening clay and stamp pads. Form the clay into a stamp base,
impress a design into it and then stamp. You can do a central design
for cards or a repeating design for nice wrapping paper. Try gold and
silver ink stamp pads on colored paper. You can get these stamp pads
in specialty crafts stores like Michael's (in California).
Best wishes to all for a lovely winter season and peace on earth!!
Alix Peshette
Emerson Junior High School
Davis, CA
> Hi you all,
> I used to love December, making gifts, getting ready for Christmas. Now I'm
> working 5 days(use to work 4) and I'm paniced. I want to give my kids at
> school wonderful projects and help them have the feeling of excitment and joy.
> And I want to make hand made presents, and send cards with handwritten notes.
> But I can't say Merry Christmas, or any other greeting but Happy Holidays. I
> can't do Santas, or more religious Jewish projects. It's all become a wash of
> nothing., in my opinion. So what am I asking all of you? 1. How do you make
> it meaningful for the kids at school? 2. How do you have time to do what you
> do for friends and family? 3. Can you find joy and have fun? Gail
>