TRAIN, world prices jack up gas price today - Manila Bulletin
TRAIN, world prices jack up gas price today - Manila Bulletin.....»»
SEC revokes Rappler registration, Dengvaxia refund, Sereno impeachment hearing | Evening wRap
Today on Rappler: The Securities and Exchange Commission revokes the registration of Rappler allegedly for violating the Constitution and the Anti-Dummy Law. Sanofi Pasteur agrees to refund the P1.4 billion that the Philippine government is demanding for the unused Dengvaxia dengue vaccine vials in the country. Supreme Court Associate Justice Samuel Martires urges the families of deceased ........»»
Duterte claims he fired CHED s Licuanan
DAVAO CITY, Philippines – Patricia Licuanan’s exit from the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) was not one without an order coming from the President himself. “I have dismissed Licuanan today, 'yung sa Marina (the one from the Maritime Industry Authority), and many will follow,” President Rodrigo Duterte said during his speech at the inauguration of the ........»»
EARTHQUAKE WARNING: Philippines struck by TEN quakes - and tremors GROWING in STRENGTH
THE Philippines has been struck by TEN earthquakes today with tremors growing in strength across its 7,000 islands as the Mount Mayon volcano erupted causing widespread evacuations after the alert lev.....»»
Mayon volcano ERUPTS: Incredible images of glowing red lava as Philippines raises alert
THE Mayon volcano erupted for the second time this weekend today and now incredible images from the Philippines show as bright red lava has dramatically begun spewing out the mountain.........»»
10 flights canceled on Monday
Severalflights to and from the Bicol and Caraga regions have been canceled due to bad weather, the Manila International Airport Authority (Miaa) said on Monday. In its advisory, the Miaa announced the cancelation of the following flights as of 1:40 p.m.: Cebu Pacific 5J 321 Manila -- Legazpi 5J 322 Legazpi -- Manila 5J 323 Manila - Legazpi 5J 324 Legazpi - Manila Cebgo DG 6073 Manila - Tablas DG 6074 Tablas -- Manila DG 6177 Manila - Masbate DG 6178 Masbate - Manila Skyjet M8 421 Manila - Siargao M8 422 Siargao - Manila The Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Serv...Keep on reading: 10 flights canceled on Monday.....»»
DOF to submit today Package 2 of TRAIN
MANILA, Philippines — The Department of Finance (DOF) is planning to submit to Congress today the draft of its second tax reform bill focusing on income taxe.....»»
Kanlaon Volcano update
ALERT LEVEL 2 status remained over Kanlaon Volcano, according to Phivolcs’ update on Sunday which also noted five volcanic earthquakes during the past 24 hours. The bulletin also read: “The local government units and the public are strictly reminded that entry into the 4-kilometer radius Permanent Danger Zone (PDZ) is strictly prohibited due to the […] The post Kanlaon Volcano update appeared first on BusinessWorld......»»
Bulusan Volcano update
ALERT LEVEL 1 (abnormal) status remained in effect as of Sunday’s update by Phivolcs, saying this meant it was in “a state of unrest probably driven by hydrothermal processes that could generate steam-driven or phreatic eruptions.” The update also read: “Local government units and the public are reminded that entry into the 4-kilometer radius Permanent […] The post Bulusan Volcano update......»»
Golf Channel cameramen walk out on coverage amid Sony Open
By Doug Ferguson, Associated Press Palm Desert,......»»
M......»»
Baguio’s chill continues to dip
BAGUIO CITY, Philippines — This city’s weather continues to get colder, hitting a low of 11.4 degrees Celsius yesterday morning......»»
PRC Initial Registration venue moved to PICC
All Initial Registrations with the PRC of successful examinees shall already be held at the PICC in Pasay City, starting today January 15. #BeFullyInformed PRC Initial Registration venue moved to PICC All Initial Registrations with the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) of successful examinees shall already be held at the Philippine International Convention Center (PICC) in… link: PRC Initial Registration venue moved to PICC.....»»… link: Business networking, a ‘must have’.....»» [...] The post Business networking, a ‘must have’ appeared first on The Manila Times….....»»….....»»
Coldest weather in Baguio - Malaya
Coldest weather in Baguio - Malaya.....»»