Learning Cabin Ltd ("Learning Cabin") operates learningcabin.co.uk and may operate other websites. It is Learning Cabin's policy to respect your privacy regarding any information we may collect while operating our websites.
Website Visitors
Like most website operators, Learning Cabin collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. Learning Cabin's purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how Learning Cabin's visitors use its website. From time to time, Learning Cabin may release non-personally-identifying information in the aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of its website.
Learning Cabin also collects potentially personally-identifying information like Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on learningcabin.co.uk blogs/sites. Learning Learning Cabin's websites choose to interact with Learning Cabin in ways that require Learning Cabin to gather personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that Learning Cabin gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. For example, we ask visitors who sign up at learningcabin.co.uk to provide a username and email address. Those who engage in transactions with Learning Cabin are asked to provide additional information, including as necessary the personal and financial information required to process those transactions. In each case, Learning Cabin collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor's interaction with Learning Cabin. Learning Cabin does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. And visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities.
Aggregated Statistics
Learning Cabin may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. Learning Cabin may display this information publicly or provide it to others. However, Learning Cabin does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below.
Protection of Certain Personally-Identifying Information
Learning Cabin discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on Learning Cabin's behalf or to provide services available at Learning Cabin's websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. Some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using Learning Cabin's websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. Learning Cabin will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. Other than to its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, Learning Cabin discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only in response to a subpoena, court order or other governmental request, or when Learning Cabin believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of Learning Cabin, third parties or the public at large. If you are a registered user of an Learning Cabin website and have supplied your email address, Learning Cabin may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what's going on with Learning Cabin and our products. If you send us a request (for example via email or via one of our feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish it in order to help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. Learning. Learning Cabin uses cookies to help Learning Cabin identify and track visitors, their usage of Learning Cabin website, and their website access preferences. Learning Cabin visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using Learning Cabin's websites, with the drawback that certain features of Learning Cabin's websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies.
Business Transfers
If Learning Cabin, or substantially all of its assets, were acquired, or in the unlikely event that Learning Cabin goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of Learning Learning Cabin and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers.
Although most changes are likely to be minor, Learning Cabin may change its Privacy Policy from time to time, and in Learning Cabin's sole discretion. Learning Cabin encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its Privacy Policy. If you have a learningcabin.co.uk account, you might also receive an alert informing you of these changes. Your continued use of this site after any change in this Privacy Policy will constitute your acceptance of such change.