For the Reporter-Herald
This can be a wonderful season of the year, when families come together, friendships are rekindled, and the hope for peace is everywhere. But unfortunately, for some people, there can also be the a-a-choo that seems to come with the season.
Sneezing, sinus congestion, fatigue — it could just be the common cold, but researchers recently pointed to a surprising possible cause for the uptick in allergy like symptoms that is seen over the holidays. And aghast, the culprit may be one of the most beloved symbols of the season: the Christmas tree.
In the Annals of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, researchers from the State University of New York noted that "respiratory illnesses peak around Christmas."
"Within two weeks of putting a tree up, you can experience symptoms due to either the smell of pine resin in 'live' trees or various molds found in the trees," wrote American Family Care (AFC), a national health care system of urgent and family care facilities.
In the past, physicians and researchers had thought that the rise in cold-like symptoms over the holidays were "sparked by tree pollen and weed killer applied to trees," according to AFC.
In 2011, the State University researchers noted that the trigger was more likely the, "molds found in live Christmas trees." In fact, 70 percent of the molds on the trees were suspect.
The American Christmas Tree Association (ACTA) notes that because most trees for purchase, "are harvested well in advance of Christmas and stored in moist holding areas prior to settling in your home, undesirable mold spores have time to develop and grow. When you bring one of these live trees inside, these same microscopic spores that usually float freely outdoors, float freely in the enclosed sanctuary of your home. Floating molds create an atmosphere that can make someone with allergies quite susceptible to asthma and increasing sinus issues," wrote ACTA.
But before you decide to haul your tree to the recycling center, AFC and ACTA offer several things you can do to lessen the chances of what is referred to as Christmas Tree Syndrome.
Both organizations recommend washing off the tree and letting it dry before bringing it into the home. That idea might not always be feasible in changing Colorado where temperature could turn your efforts into natural icicles on the branches. But on warmer days, this is a positive option for removing mold spores from the tree.
Wearing gloves and a long-sleeved shirt as you bring the tree inside can also help. This can keep you from touching sap, which contains terpene and other substances that can irritate skin and mucous membranes, noted ACTA.
Dr. Johnny Shen, a board-certified physician with American Family Care's Doctors Express, an urgent and family care center in Cherry Creek, notes that they do see an increase in the number of patients coming in with allergy type symptoms during the Christmas season.
"But we don't immediately chock it up to Christmas Tree Syndrome. For the most part it wouldn't be the first thing we think of," said Shen. He pointed to the importance of getting a good history before determining the cause. "There's a list of questions we might ask. 'Have you been exposed to mold dust? Have you been up in the mountains? If you get closer to the tree does your wheezing or other symptoms increase?"
Shen cautions against self-diagnosing. "Go see a doctor if you have shortness of breath. If you have a fever, make sure it's not an infection — you may have a bacterial infection that needs to be treated."
If it is determined that you most likely do have an allergic reaction to Christmas trees, there are some things you can do that may help. To avoid molds, avoid trees that have been cut and stored for some time. A freshly cut tree may work better for you. If you are allergic to pine oil or pine pollen (conifer pollen), then the freshly cut ones may cause you more problems.
"If you have allergies, maintain good air flow by using an air purifier," suggested Shen. "We'd recommend not keeping your tree longer than four to seven days in the house."
Before you rush out and decide to purchase an artificial tree, be aware that they can also induce allergic reactions, usually from dust. Remember to cover your artificial tree and store it to avoid excessive dust. When you pull it out for the new season, take a moment to wipe it down.
For those who are prone to allergies, taking a few precautions can help them enjoy the beauty of their Christmas tree and avoid the discomfort of Christmas Tree Syndrome.