Getting busy and need a quick solution?
- Spend more time on rewarding projects
- Flexible answering services for construction experts with hectic schedules
- Excellent customer service 24/7
- No missed calls, no missed contracts
- Use your time the way you want to
Contracting professionals work hard – you need lots of time, energy and skill to juggle many different projects. Sometimes when the phone rings, you are too busy on the go with an urgent situation and miss that call. Missed calls mean missed clients. 80% of callers who get an answering machine are just going to move on to a different company and lose you a potential project. Let us answer your calls with our friendly and understanding team at Virtual Headquarters and get all the best contracts!
We understand that customer satisfaction is the key to any lucrative business. This is why our Virtual Receptionist team is comprised of committed, smart Australian based receptionists with years of industry experience. We can answer your calls like seasoned professionals all day, everyday. Customers will know that your construction company is one that takes every detail carefully, that they can communicate with, and one they can rely on. With our premium telephone answering service, you will always retain your company’s reputation, even if you’re all over at different job sites monitoring progress. Keep all your clients satisfied with our excellent customer service while you are working on your ground breaking development projects!
We handle a high volume of calls that allow us to professionally answer calls for construction companies of all sizes. With a simple and easy set up process, we could be answering your calls within a matter of minutes! All calls that come in for your business are answered efficiently by one of our qualified, Australian based receptionists. You can still work all day on custom upgrades and luxury aesthetics, and never have the issue of losing potential clients ever again. Outsourcing your reception service is guaranteed to boost your revenue without any compromise in quality. We promise your callers will receive superior levels of friendliness, knowledge and customer service with every call.
As an expert contractor, you will be able to use your technical skills at your rewarding landmark projects without the hassle of answering calls. Spend more time building your business, negotiating pricing and overseeing finances than doing administrative tasks. We know that it is important for you to turn your client’s concept into reality with comfort, ease and innovation. Whether you work and design multi-units, interiors, exteriors, refurbishment, home improvements and extensions, your craftmanship is valuable and takes time. You know your clients need the best workmanship to craft exactly what they need and will fit their lifestyle. We can tailor our service to all sectors of construction and help you get the information and specifications you need to make their dream a reality.
A superior telephone answering service for your construction company
Virtual Headquarters remains at the forefront of the answering service industry and we are dedicated to providing a organised, reliable and professional telephone answering service for your business every day. We guarantee your customers speak to a live operator in 3 rings or less, where 93% of all telephone calls are answered by in less than 10 seconds or less, any time of the day! Globally, we have over 7000 Virtual telephone-answering clients who are continually impressed by the high quality service they are receiving for an affordable price. We pride ourselves in being a feature rich service that enhances the national growth and profitability of your building company. With no reduction of quality, you can reap the benefits of a premium telephone answering service for an affordable price. With packages starting from as little as $20 per month, there is no reason not to see how we can provide your customers with the best customer service they have ever received.
How does Virtual Headquarters give you more time on site?
When you sign up to our FREE 7 day trial, you will be allocated a specific local phone number in a city of your choice - your Virtual Headquarters number. You can choose to use this allocated phone number as your company number or if you are an established construction company like most of our clients, simply call forward your existing number to your Virtual Headquarters number on busy or no answer and we will be answering and handling your calls.
Many companies also choose to use us as an overflow service. If your staff are sick, on holiday or even just on their lunch break, simply switch your calls to us and we will take care of it from there. Outsourcing your receptionist service has never been a more financially smart decision - ultimately you are turning a fixed cost into a variable cost. Irrespective of whether you run your personal construction business or you are part of a much larger building organisation, we provide flexible packages to suit the desired needs of you as a business owner or manager.
Being flexible as a construction company is key to success – but don’t risk poor customer service. Whether you have a mobile office with long hours, or a hectic schedule on the road or at a site, we can handle all your calls the way you want us to. We understand that you receive many different requests, ranging from new enquiries, questions from existing contracts to price quotes, appointments and estimates. Our receptionists are factory-trained to respond to these in any way you need us to. You control what we say and who we contact in any situation, so we can make life easier for you and your construction team. Simply give us some information about your services, quotes and scope of work during our hassle-free sign up process, so that our telephone representatives can help your customers in the way they need. We can screen calls based on urgency, introduce and transfer calls to you or alternatively contact you with a detailed message through email, SMS or both. With our free android and iPhone apps, you can change any setting with the swipe of a finger from anywhere in the world! If you know you will be out on site all day, change your availability on the app from “available for call transfer” to “do not disturb” and instead of our receptionists introducing and transferring calls to you, they will take messages.
Provide a consistent and professional company image for your construction company
You care about integrity and sustainability, and use your expertise whether working on geotechnical solutions, building or maintenance. We provide your construction company with the illusion of size, looking bigger than you are if you are small, while also projecting the appropriate image if you are a larger size business. This will enhance your brand image and increase customer perception that your business is one of success and around for the long term. We help you focus on the big picture. If your job requires you to work in and around your construction business, you may miss important opportunities to take calls during the day. If you become an integrated part of our virtual receptionist team then you will have the peace of mind that your clients are being taken care of around the clock, 24x7, 365 days of the year. Feel confident when building your business that our elite call answering service will ensure you never miss another call so you stay one step ahead of your competitors. Enquire today by calling 1300 885 830 with any questions or click one of the Free 7 day trial buttons on our site to get your service set up instantly.