One of the best things about retirement is having the ability to travel and explore, and living in an assisted and independent living community doesn't change that fact. With that in mind, there are some things you should keep in mind to make traveling more safe and enjoyable.
Pack all medications and have at least a week's worth of extra supplies. If you take medication that requires refrigeration take along an insulated bag and make sure all medications are in the labeled bottle they came in. For extended trips, you should also have written copies of all prescriptions just in case something is lost or stolen.
Have a list of all medical conditions and physician contact information. This is a good place to also write all pertinent information such as times medications should be taken and who should be notified in case of emergency.
If you're traveling by car plan for extra comfort stops so that you can stay comfortable. Plan on taking ten minute walks every hour to increase circulation. Make sure to bring neck pillows and other comforts to prevent stiff and soreness during the trip.
Sometimes while traveling, it’s not always convenient to eat when you’re hungry (unless it’s a mostly food trip). Remember to always pack snacks to prevent exhausting your body from lack of nutrition.
When planning overnight trips call ahead to the hotel and request an accessible room that is near the elevators or exits. This will help prevent exhaustion from going back and forth to the room.
Traveling by air has a few perks if you are 75 or older. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) allows travelers expedited screening to ease the anxiety of the security check in. TSA also offers other screening procedures so that you are allowed to bring items you may need on you at all times. Contact your local airport to talk to them about any medical equipment you may need during your flight. For example, traveling with portable oxygen can be different depending on the airline so you need to know the policies in advance.
Buses, trains, and cruise ships all have special accommodations for seniors who are part of a tour. Just make sure to call before you make reservations so you know the travel mode will be accessible and comfortable both during the trip and at the destination.
With a bit of planning and a few phone calls you will find that traveling to a new place can be the adventure of a lifetime!