DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)--From September 12-16th, Denver will host the Biennial of the Americas, the most important and influential gathering of top elected, business and cultural leaders focused on the Western hemisphere. Kicked off today with a full-line up, this year’s festival will feature leaders from more than 20 countries around the Americas and bring together renowned experts and leaders for four days of thought-provoking discussions, festivals, art exhibitions and engagement.
Established in 2010 by Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper while he was Mayor of Denver, along with leaders in the arts and business in the city of Denver, the organization was created to recognize and build upon the important economic and cultural ties in the Americas.
“We are thrilled yet again to bring together the most innovative leaders from across the Western Hemisphere for activities and events intended to accelerate and transform how we do business and live together,” said Erin Trapp, CEO, Biennial of the Americas. “Returning to Denver for our fourth year, this year’s Biennial of the Americas promises to convene a diverse array of public figures, global topic experts, innovative artists and deep thinkers packaged into one riveting international festival.”
Throughout the week these industry-leading experts will partake in lively discussions led by a moderator showcasing the importance of various issues impacting the Americas.
For last minute ticket information, visit. An initial schedule of all programming open to the public follows:
September 12, Opening Day
Noon, Born Hotel, Open to public
Mayors of the Americas Panel “Entrepreneurial Cities” featuring Michael Hancock (Denver)
Opening Night Gala
7:30 p.m.
Save the Date for the biggest night of the year as the 2017 Biennial festival previews the week and presents its annual awards
September 13, Innovative Americas Day
Noon, Born Hotel, Open to public
Lunchtime Innovation panel featuring Alejandra Mustakis, Idea Factory Chile, Mike Fries, Liberty Global, JB Holston, University of Denver, former Mexican Ambassador Arturo Sarukahn
MCA Opening: Saber Acomodar
6:00 p.m.
The Museum of Contemporary Art Denver is presenting an outstanding exhibition with guest curator Patrick Charpenel. The exhibition features artists from Guadalajara, Mexico
September 14, Civic Americas Day
Noon, Born Hotel, Open to public
Lunchtime Civic Innovation panel featuring Scott Sherman of the Transformational Institute on “How to Change the World”
Americas Symposium, Ellie Caulkins Opera House
7:00 p.m.
Join top business and civic leaders from around the hemisphere for a symposium that explores The Long View: The Next 50 Years of Partnership in the Americas.
Featuring Univision’s Enrique Acevedo, LinkedIn’s Reid Hoffman, Pulitzer Prize winning Elizabeth Alexander of the Ford Foundation, and Ashley Bell of the Peace Corps
September 15, Sustainability Day
Noon, Born Hotel, Open to public
Lunchtime Sustainability panel featuring Secretary Tom Vilsack, facilitator; Jim Lochhead, Denver Water; Bruce Karas, Coca-Cola; and more
HAVANA NIGHTS Free Concert
Join us as we feature the first U.S. outpost of the international spectacular “Fábrica de Arte Cubano” (FAC), curated by Cuban rocker, rapper and filmmaker Equis Alfonso. This concert takes place in a converted warehouse reminiscent of the original FAC-Havana. A space for artistic collaboration between Cuba and the U.S. in a warehouse atmosphere, the FAC will feature performances and exhibitions of dance, music and visual arts.
September 16, Saturday
Site visits featuring innovations in sustainability with Denver Water burn site, Rocky Mountain Wildlife Arsenal and Chatfield State Park
HAVANA NIGHTS Free Concert
Join us again for the second night of the first U.S. outpost of the international spectacular “Fábrica de Arte Cubano” (FAC), curated by Cuban rocker, rapper and filmmaker Equis Alfonso.
This year’s Biennial in Denver will feature four significant art exhibitions:
- Mi Tierra: Contemporary Artists Explore Place: Site-specific installations by 13 Latino artists that express experiences of contemporary life in the American West (Denver Art Museum)
- Saber Acomodar: New works that showcase the unique artistry and craftsmanship of Guadalajara, Mexico (Denver Museum of Contemporary Art)
- Gabriel Figueroa: Video and still photography selections by the renowned cinematographer from the Televisa Foundation collection (Boettcher Cultural Pavilion at McNichols Civic Center Building)
- Penitents: World End Rituals of Faith: Brazilian photographer Guy Veloso captures a moment in time where faith, consciousness and cuerpo become one through rituals
In addition, the Black Americas Project is a year-long series of events and conversations, under the Biennial of the Americas, which will explore the African Diaspora and its social, cultural, political and economic impact on the Americas of the past, present and future. During the Biennial Festival Week, the Black Americas Project will be hosting a series of cultural events that span the world of academia and the arts, including a keynote address by Ford Foundation's Dr. Elizabeth Alexander and other events in collaboration with local partners in Denver.
The 2015 Biennial hosted over 100 events throughout the summer with over 25,000 participants attending the innovative six-day opening week program of events, bringing together nearly 60 artists, speakers and international leaders representing more than 25 countries. For additional information about the Biennial of the Americas, new collaborators and partner and additional details surrounding the symposium, events, arts and ticket information, please visit.
About. Beginning September 12 through the 16th, 2017, the Biennial of the Americas will feature groundbreaking art installations, engaging conversations, live performances, and free festivals and programs that celebrate our shared cultural heritage and rich connection to the world around us.
Major sponsors for the 2017 Biennial of the Americas include Liberty Global Inc., The Anschutz Foundation, Boettcher Foundation, Bonfils-Stanton Foundation and Ernst & Young and McKinsey & Company.
For more information:
Vimeo: vimeo.com/thebiennial
YouTube:
Instagram: instagram.com/thebiennial
Twitter: @thebiennial
#BOTA17