On Thursday, May 18, nearly 200 clients, staff and board members attended our 12th Annual Awards Celebration. The event brought us together to celebrate the successes and triumphs of our clients, and honor the outstanding dedication of staff and community supporters to making a difference in the lives of our clients.
For the first time, we changed things up this year and celebrated with a brunch. The festivities took place at the Doubletree Hotel in Pikesville, with fantastic food, presentation of awards, and of course, it wouldn’t be a party without music and dancing! From the smiles, applause and some pretty awesome moves on the dance floor, it was clear that a great time was had by all!
A highlight of the event was the presentation of the Bobby Bateman Memorial Merit Award. This award is presented to a Mosaic employee who exemplifies the vision and values of Mosaic Community Services. This direct staff member is recognized for helping to transform the lives of the clients they serve. The trusting relationship between staff and clients is vital to an individual’s recovery, and retaining quality staff who understand the unique needs of individuals with mental illness and addiction is essential. The Bateman Family have chosen to recognize the amazing work of those who care for Mosaic clients, like their brother, Bobby Bateman, who was a member of the Mosaic family for 17 years. Bobby is center front in the above photo of the Bateman Family.
Our deepest congratulations to Alexandria (Allie) Pavoncello, the 2016 recipient of the Bobby Bateman Memorial Merit Award! Allie, who works as a Service Coordinator in the Catonsville Residential Rehabilitation Program, was recognized for her exceptional dedication and service to clients and families. Kathy Sharman, Mosaic board member and sister of Bobby Bateman, presented the award to Allie on behalf of the Bateman family. She was also presented with a cowboy hat in honor of Bobby, who loved and wore a cowboy hat almost constantly.
Awards were presented to the winners for outstanding achievement in the following categories:
Adult Achiever of the Year
David Terry
Supported Employee of the Year
Charles Schwarzkopf
Supported Employer of the Year
Chris Sherren, Advance Auto
Volunteer of the Year
Marianne Eichenberger
Throughout the year, staff members are recognized for their exceptional contributions to Mosaic through Awards of Excellence. We are proud to honor and thank them for everything they do to advance Mosaic’s mission each day!
Erin Baker, Informatics Specialist, Administration, Timonium
Angel Bruce, Employee Specialist, Chesapeake Connections, Baltimore
Wayne Carberry, Rehabilitation Counselor/Driver, Transportation
Jawanna Coates, Case Manage, Chesapeake Connections, Baltimore
Myrtle Copeland, Client Support Rep, Randallstown Clinic
Alex D’Amario, Service Coordinator/Counselor 2, Westminster PRP
Brenda Doyle, Addictions Counselor, Partners in Recovery, Dundalk
Natalie Elliott, Health Homes Case Manager, Baltimore
Betsy Ensor, Family Navigator, Westminster
Nicole Gouch, Clinical Case Manager, Chesapeake Connections, Baltimore
Chandra Hassan, Addictions Specialist, Partners in Recovery, Baltimore
Melinda Holloway, Residential Service Coordinator, Residential Crisis Program
Jo King, Administrative Assistant, Timonium
Angela Koeller, Benefits Counseling Specialist, Supportive Housing, Baltimore
Charlisa Moore, Housing Compliance Manager, Timonium
Ashley Novak, Program Coordinator, Westminster
Jinaki Olatunji, Addictions Counselor, Partners in Recovery, Baltimore
Alexandria Pavoncello, Service Coordinator, Residential Rehabilitation Program, Catonsville
Heather Ripley, Therapist, Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) Team, Baltimore
Shapreice Shears, Service Coordinator, Residential Rehabilitation Program, Baltimore
Gina Stritch, Case Manager, Chesapeake Connections, Baltimore
Lauren Swanner, Nurse Care Manager, Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) Team, Baltimore
Erica Thompson, Program Director, Clinical Services & Therapist, Outpatient Mental Health Clinic, Catonsville
Ariel Williams-Edwards, Team Leader, Chesapeake Connections, Baltimore
Tiffany Wise-Lamin, Residential Counselor, Residential Rehabilitation Program, Catonsville
George “Artie” Yorkman, Residential Rehabilitation Counselor, Residential Rehabilitation Program, Catonsville