The Routledge Handbook of Tourism Geographies
Edited by Julie Wilson
Routledge – 2010 – 330 pages
Routledge – 2010 – 330 pages-of-the-art review of the field, documenting advances in research and evaluating different perspectives, approaches, techniques and contexts.
The Routledge Handbook of Tourism Geographies considers recent disciplinary developments (including post-disciplinarily) in geography in relation to the study of tourism. It also analyzes the fledging relationships of the new mobilities paradigm, critical tourism studies and cultural political economy to tourism spaces and places, as well as acknowledging a spatial turn in poststructuralist social sciences more generally. In addition, it evaluates how postcolonial, feminist, sensory, performative and queer perspectives have diversified research in the tourism geographies field. Spatial analysis, time geography, placemaking and landscape concerns are addressed and issues such as transport, environmental discourses and development are also analyzed. Finally, the volume’s contributions highlight key areas for advancing research and map out the dimensions of future trajectories in tourism geographies in different theoretical and thematic contexts.
Written by leading scholars in the tourism geographies field, this text will provide an invaluable resource for all those with an interest in tourism geographies, encouraging dialogue across disciplinary boundaries and areas of study.
"…this volume offers an inspiring collection that raises questions and points to new directions of research." – Carolin Funck, Hiroshima University, Japan – published in Tourism Analysis
Introduction 1. Tourism: The View from Space Julie Wilson Part One: Tracing Tourism Geographies 2. From the Geography of Tourism to Geographies of Tourism C. Michael Hall and Stephen J. Page 3. Tourism Geographies or Geographies of Tourism: Where the Bloody Hell are we? Richard W. Butler Part Two: Conceptualising Tourism Geographies 4. Tourism Geographies and Post-Structuralism Tim Gale 5. A Radical Departure: A Critique of the Critical Turn in Tourism Studies Raoul V. Bianchi 6. Geographies of Tourism: Space, Ethics and Encounter Chris Gibson 7. Tourism, Individuation and Space Kevin Meethan 8. Performance, Space and Tourism Jonas Larsen 9. Sensuous Geographies of Tourism Tim Edensor and Emily Falconer 10. Queer Perspectives on Tourism Geographies Gordon Waitt 11. Tourism, Space and Gender Jacqueline Tivers 12. Future Spaces of Postcolonialism in Tourism Donna Keen and Hazel Tucker 13. Gentrification, Tourism and the Production and Consumption of Space Julie Wilson and Andrew Tallon 14. The ‘Mobilities Turn’ and the Geography of Tourism Tara Duncan 15. Exploring the Geographies of Lifestyle Mobility: Current and Future Fields of Enquiry Maria Casado-Diaz 16. Tourism, Creativity and Space Julie Wilson 17. Making and Unmaking Places in Tourism Geographies T.C. Chang 18. Tourism Spaces, Behaviours and Cultures: The Metaspatialities of Tourism Petri Hottola Part Three: Approaching Tourism Geographies 19. The Economy of Tourism Spaces: A Multiplicity of ‘Critical Turns’? Keith G. Debbage and Dimitri Ioannides 20. Historical Geographies of Tourism Dallen J. Timothy 21. Spatial Analysis: A Critical Tool for Tourism Geographies C. Michael Hall 22. Time Geography and Tourism Noam Shoval 23. Geography and the Marketing of Tourism Destinations Alan A. Lew 24. Geographies of Tourism and Development Marcela Palomino-Schalscha 25. Environmental Discourses and Tourism Andrew Holden 26. Landscape Perspectives on Tourism Geographies Daniel C. Knudsen, Jillian M. Rickly-Boyd and Michelle M. Metro-Roland 27. The Politics and Geographies of International Air Transport David Timothy Duval and Tay T.R. Koo Part Four: Situating Tourism Geographies 28. Rethinking Mass Tourism, Space and Place Salvador Anton Clavé 29. Geographies of Rural Tourism: Current Progress and Paradoxes Gunjan Saxena 30. Geographies of Tourism and the City Martin Selby 31. Changing Geographies of Coastal Resorts: Development Processes and Tourism Spaces Gareth Shaw and Sheela Agarwal Part Five: Advancing Tourism Geographies 32. Tourism Geographies in a Post-Disciplinary Age Julie Wilson
Julie Wilson is Research Professor at the Rovira i Virgili University, Catalonia and Senior Research Fellow, University of the West of England, Bristol, UK.
Name: The Routledge Handbook of Tourism Geographies (Hardback) – Routledge
Description: Edited by Julie Wilson. Geographical analysis of tourism spaces and places is advancing fast. In terms of human geography, the various recent academic ‘turns’ have led to fresh examination of existing debates and have advanced new theoretical ideas in...
Categories: Tourism Geography, Tourism Society and Culture, Tourism Development/Impacts