!
I was in momentary pink heaven. I have never been a pink girl either. Even rebelled dressing my girls in pink. Over the last few months however, images such as these have changed my mind. I'm with you Averill, would love to have a bedroom such as that. I don't compromise much in decorating. Husband is pretty tolerant of my crazy style. I did do a guest bedroom here in Houston with a vintage 70's wallpaper (looks like a Pucci design). It has a bold orchid/pink color in it. I thought my brother in law was going to faint when I showed him his room when he came to stay from Scotland. I won't even get started about that earth shattering walk-in closet. OMG!!!
Averill, this room is one of my all-time faves. I love the way Jamie Drake is fearless with color.
Averill-I heard Jamie Drake speak last week at the Corcoran-quite a charming man. I am as girly as they come and pink is my favorite color. I was smart enough to marry a man who has no interest in interior design and is color blind. Needless to say, I do as I wish. But the only room in my house that is all pink is my dressing room that nobody goes in but me. But in other rooms I use touches of pink. Pink is my beige.
oooh la la! i swear i would keep my closet clean if it looked like the one above! i always tell the boys i am going to get my own condo down the street and just visit them with groceries every few days. if i did, i could have a bedroom like that!.
Two things right now, though: He's not sure about my painting the headboards for Avery's big girl room redo, and I'm trying to figure out a way to get rid of this hideous "pirate trunk" we have from his grandparent's estate without him noticing! ;)
Oh wow, I'm loving all of the pink! And that closet is absolutely amazing! :)
OMG that closet!! Did you notice that the bench fabric matches an outfit that's in the closet? I love that the handbag storage looks like a boutique display. No pink in my house now. Hubby like darks, and I like lights. I've mostly won, but he really wanted a dark room - hence our the tiny brown guest room. Only it looks more like poo than Hershey's! :( He thinks it's cozy, I think it's dark and depressing. More decorating must be done in that space...??
At first glance, I thought all of the pink was overwhelming but, as you pointed out, I think Jamie Drake did a great job giving it a more grown-up vibe with the furnishings. I love that lucite desk chair -- and the closet...wow...put a cot in there and I would live in that closet :).
The way to get your pink fix as an adult is to have little girls! I decorated the room of one of my girls in pink - delicate pink on the walls, a beautiful balloon shade in pink and white toile, a white blanket cover with a big pink monogram in the center, complete with matching euro. She tolerates the whole scheme now, but we have alread painted over the pink on the walls as she decided she did not like it. Oh well!
My husband doesn't give to much guidance on decor choices, but he does have veto power. I keep it fairly neutral. The bedroom is actually more on the feminine side (I am going to do a post on it soon), but because it is done in blues and whites, the color scheme does not translate as feminine, even though the scallops on the blanket cover, the curves on the mirror, and monograms on the pillows are definitely feminine touches!.
Wow that is one gorgeous bedroom and closet. I adore it. I am a sort of girly girl. Okay, a total girly girl - even though my house is decorated as such, because I too am married! I have been given free reign in our guest room though, and it's totally cutesy.
Loved this post Averill!
Each space is delightfully pretty in pink :) I love the touches of gold and lucite, such as the mirror in image 02 -- so decadent against the clean wall behind. The armoire has that wow factor, with a grown-up flair. As for that closet? I don't even know where to begin...if I went in there, I don't think the jaws of life could get me out again...!