
You Need To Find Your Superpowers.
To be successful in whatever you do, you need to operate from your strengths, from your superpowers and not from your weaknesses.
Sometimes we’re not aware of our superpowers which are right under our nose.
The best way to find these superpowers is to ask others. Others can see things that we don’t.
Today’s challenge is to email at least 9 people, that know you, and ask them what your superpowers are.
These people could be family members, friends, work colleagues, employees, the boss, clients or suppliers.
This is something that Pat Flynn and several other entrepreneurs have done because by knowing their superpowers they can take advantage of them. Once you know your superpowers then you too can take advantage of them.
Your superpowers can be a skill, an attribute, characteristic or talent that you have that no-one else has. These are your unfair advantage, your competitive edge that separates you from others. It’s what makes you so special.
When I did this challenge, here are what people said:
Martin is
Positive
Enthusiastic
Empathetic
Caring
Considerate
Optimistic
Reliable
Efficient
Helpful
Cheeky (in a good way)
Focused
Determined
Self motivated
Persistent
I agree with what people have said. I am determined, self-motivated and I do my best to help people. Yes, I also like to have fun in the process. I’m pleased that people have said these things about me because these qualities are required to be successful in the field of coaching, which is my passion.
Now it’s your turn to find your superpowers.
I’ve made it easy for you. Simply copy and paste the text below in an email (with or without modification) and send it to at least 5 people that know you.
I suggest sending just one email to all of your contacts by adding their name in the BCC field in your email. They will not know who else you sent it to and only you will receive the reply. Substitute your name where it says [Your Name] and whichever applies where it says [he/she] or [him/her].
Subject: From Martin Formato on behalf of [Your Name]
Hi, my name is Martin Formato and I’m a professional certified life coach who is helping [Your Name] find their superpowers. Don’t worry, I’m not trying to sell you anything.
I’ve asked [Your Name] to send you this email because [he/she] needs your help and trusts that you’ll give your honest opinion. This won’t take more than a minute of your time.
I’ve challenged [Your Name] to discover a unique trait or skill that they are really good at – to find a sort of “superpower” that they possess that can be used to their advantage in life, at work or in business.
The best way to know this information is to hear it from others, that’s why I’ve asked [Your Name] to email just a few select people.
If you could reply to this email with what you believe to be [Your Name’s] “superpowers” or traits and characteristics that you believe to be unique, it would help out tremendously.
Only [Your Name] will see your reply and no-one else.
If you are not sure about this and want to make sure this is real you can email me at Martin@DoingWorkThatMatters.com or go to my website at
I’m here to help [Your Name] and I’m thankful that you are too.
Cheers and all the best.
Martin Formato
Professional Certified Life & Workplace Coach
If you would like to send these out individually or change the message somewhat then you are free to do so.
The important thing is that you send it out, get a reply, so you can find out more about you… What makes you special?
When you receive your responses you may notice that there are some common themes. This is a good thing as it validates how you are being perceived by others.
I would love to read in the comments section below what people have said are your superpowers. if you liked and got value from this post and want more tips on how to create a life you love then please like and subscribe to my other channels below.
Also if you think this post would be of value to someone else then please share it.
Twitter:
Instagram:
Amazon Kindle Books:
YouTube:
To get my FREE book “Find Your Gift, Passion and Purpose”, click the link below:
Remember to come back and add a comment on what people have said are your superpowers. I would love to read them. Now let’s go find your superpowers.