Jacob
Jacob (Hebrew: יַעֲקֹב, Standard Yaʿaqov Tiberian Yaʿăqōḇ; Arabic: يعقوب, Yaʿqūb; "holds the heel"), also known as Israel (Hebrew: יִשְׂרָאֵל, Standard Yisraʾel Tiberian Yiśrāʾēl; Arabic: اسرائيل, Isrāʾīl; "Struggled with God"), is the third Biblical patriarch. Jacob was the son of Isaac, the grandson of Abraham, twin brother of Esau., Issachar, Zebulun, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Joseph, and Benjamin.[1]
Jacob , together with his older brother Esau, was born to Isaac and Rebecca after 20 years of marriage, when his father was 60,[2] and Abraham was 160 years old. He and Esau were markedly different in appearance and behaviour. Esau was a ruddy hunter, while Jacob was a gentle man who "dwelled in tents," interpreted by many biblical commentators as a mark of his studiousness and reserved personality.
During Rebecca's pregnancy, "the children struggled together within her". favoured by his mother, while Esau was favoured by his father. which belonged to Esau as the older brother. Esau agreed, commenting, "I am going to die — what is this birthright to me?" The fact that Esau would sell his familial rights in exchange for soup indicates the disdain in which he held his fathers' traditions. In the words of the Bible, "Esau despised the birthright."[4] However, there are many interpretations of this statement. Some believe he meant that if he were dead, then his brother would have the birthright anyway; why should he die? If Esau were not to sell his birthright, he may have died from starvation, giving Jacob the birthright either way..
Rebecca saw," but when they were complete, Laban deceived Jacob by switching his older daughter, Leah, as the veiled bride.
[According to the traditional Midrashic interpretation of the story (not part of the story given in Genesis), finally married Rachel, but he continued to work for Laban another seven years.. Afterwards, Leah became fertile again and gave birth to Issachar, Zebulun, and Dinah. At this point, God remembered Rachel, who gave birth to Joseph and Benjamin.
Various interpretations of biblical passages suggest that Jacob's favoritism of Rachel over Leah passed over to their children. Some commentators feel that this rivalry played an important role in the later attempt on Joseph's life by his half-brothers.who?
Around the time that Joseph was born, Jacob decided to return home to his parents, but Laban was reluctant to release him, as. (See an illustration of the genetics behind this deal) 'household idols' idols back. Knowing nothing about Rachel's theft of the idols, Jacob told Laban that whoever stole them should die, and offered to let him search. When Laban reached Rachel's tent, she hid the idols by sitting on them. Jacob and Laban parted from each other in peace, Laban returning home and Jacob continuing on his way... Christian commentators have speculated that this was a punishment from God due to Jacob's earlier sins, which included impersonation of Esau (a form of lying or deception).citation needed
Nearly ten years after the sale of Joseph, Pharaoh had two troubling dreams which could not be interpreted to his satisfaction. Joseph, who was in the king's prison, was recommended to Pharaoh as an interpreter of dreams, and he, the sons of Jacob went down had twelve sons by his four wives, as follows:
These 12 sons comprise the twelve Tribes of Israel. The names of these tribes were recorded on the vestments of the Kohen Gadol (high priest). However, when the land of Israel was apportioned among the tribes in the days of Joshua, the Tribe of Levi, being priests, did not receive land. Therefore, when the tribes are listed in reference to their receipt of land, as well as to their encampments during the 40 years of wandering in the desert, the Tribe of Joseph is replaced by the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh (the two sons of Joseph by his Egyptian wife Asenath, whom Jacob elevated to the status of full tribes). during their long exile, which continues to the present day. (Genesis 48:8-20), this is seen as a foreshadowing of the blessings Christians believe resulted from Jesus' death on the cross.
In Arabic, Jacob is known as Yaqub. He is revered as a prophet who received inspiration from God. The Qur'an does not give the details of Jacob’s life. It is said that he was later honored by God with the name Isra'il (Israel in English) (Yisrael in Hebrew) because of his devotion and dedication to God's will. Isra' means Night Journey and Il simply means God (Allah) (similar to the word El in Semitic Language meaning God). Yaqub was said to have migrated somewhere in a night journey with his children and later favored by God with this name.