 civil rights act took away the liberties of the black man, the yellow man, the brown man, as well as the white man. Constitutional principles is all we need.
The number of Washington Wire stories mentioning disgraced Republican fundraiser Jack Abramoff: 64 (yes, it's true).
The number of Washington Wire stories on the indicted and disgraced Democratic fundraiser Mark Hemingway: 0 (what did you think it would be?)
The Washington Wire's credibility: you decide.
Gary did a good job here in NM. He left us with a surplus, and Richardson with his corrupt policies blew it all.
Ben, what do you think about the surplus Clinton left to Bush?
Good luck Gary! I'll hopefully see you in 2012!
The following is an example of practicing the Doctrine of the Big Lie - that if you repeat a lie often enough, people will believe it:
* Anonymous wrote:
Ben, what do you think about the surplus Clinton left to Bush?
There was no surplus. It was a mirage based on fake numbers. It assumed the stock market of 1998 would last forever. It was cooked books. I'm sure the poster has no problem acknowledging that books have been cooked by entities he dislikes over the years, but when they're cooked in his favor he embraces them. The illusion of surplus disappeared before Bush implemented a single policy, and it is quite clear that had he never spent a dime above what was in place when he took office, we would still have fallen into a big deficit. It can even be argued that had he not cut taxes, the economy would have fallen sooner and farther such that tax revenues would have been worse and the deficit would be even bigger.
pot
This is so sad: Gary Johnson is mostly a good man, but not a very clear or consistent thinker.
There is no way I could support him for any office.
Gary's candidacy is a great way to re-brand the Republican Party. A WSJ op-ed in November on "Whole Foods Republicans" by Michael Petrilli pointed out that Obama won the young and the educated vote in a big way, and that as long as the Republicans deliberately position themselves as the "Party of Evil and Stupid" they don't stand a chance of winning (Sarah Palin will never win the young and educated vote). Gary is the anti-Republican Republican. He is a tri-athlete, a real entrepreneur who created a successful construction company, and a straight shooter who is far more mainstream in appeal than Ron Paul - all while having spectacular small government credentials, including vetoing more bills while governor of NM than all other 49 governors combined.
Being a native New Mexican, I have witnessed Gary Johnson's political career as governor of our state. Gotta tell ya..... he and his administration had some common sense things happening. Mainly, do not spend like drunken sailors( nothin' personal USN... just a phrase). As a result of his/their prudency, New Mexico had a surplus of a few billion dollars. Enter Bill Richardson, a two term governor and post Clinton administration loser, and we are now over 400 million in debt... but the governor has a new airplane, (that was supposedly ,as we were told, delivering water to Katrina victims, and we have a railrunner transit system, linking Belen, NM to Santa Fe. A multi billion dollar project which had been on the table during Gary's tenure, but was tabled because it was NOT a prudent financial move for the state. Unca Bill and his band of thieving, arrogant, spendthrifts pushed that one through . To this day, the state govt., is still subsiding the ridership of these rumbling railcars. There is no way it will ever, ever pay for itself. Mr. Morrison, I, like you; feel a need and a strong desire for clear and consistant thinking from our political leaders. Gotta tell ya brother, after 8 years of Bill Richardson's fecal fondues, I'm ready for Gary or a consistantly sharp, financially saavy BUSINESSPERSON, not politician; to enter the ring and especially now in these troubling and financially trying times, to attempt to slowly but surely bring our state from the swirling waters of the porcelain fountain. I pray this for our state, and the other 49 in this blessed republic. In retrospect folks, Gary damn sure was not that bad at all. Thanks for your time....... greatest of days to all.
Of all the politicians I reviewed, you and Jim Webb seem to be the most qualified.
Give it some thought.
Regarding his example of smoking and "employees being held hostage", I don't know why Gary thinks that the employees are slaves of the employer and can't work elsewhere if they don't like it. Are plumbers "held hostage" to sewer gas? Are highway workers "held hostage" to the smell of asphalt being poured?
Radio Woodstock supports legalization. To vote in our poll....go to woodstockuniverse.com. Peace, love, pot.
I definately do not agree with retirement age being raised
I don't agree with all of Gary Johnson's ideas or reasoning, but his wrong ideas are far less damaging than the wrong ideas of the rest of the politicians.
Johnson is the rare politician who actually governs by the principles that he runs on and believes in. America needs Gary Johnson, for not other reason than he believes in and fights for free markets and free minds.
I'm supporting Ron Paul in the GOP Primary. Still, I find it comforting that a guy like Gary Johnson, who is nearly 20 years younger than Ron Paul, will be around to support when Dr.Paul retires from the political scene. Additionally, I'd be more likely to go through with that plan if Gary would do the best thing he could right now and join us small government types in backing Ron Paul.