1. Before you begin mixing the dough,
you must first build the cornucopia's form. Build a cone shape
form using wire mesh. See Picture
#1
2. Next - wrap the entire form in heavy duty aluminum foil. Then
grease the outside of the form lightly with vegetable oil. See Picture #2.
3. Prepare the dough. Combine the water, bread flour, whole wheat
flour, rye flour and dark rye flour.
4. Mix with a dough hook attachment for 4 minutes on low speed.
5. Then add the shortening and salt, and continue to mix
on low speed for 4 minutes. Turn the mixer to medium speed
and mix 1 minute.
6. Remove the dough and place it on a floured work table. Using
a rolling pin, pin the dough to a large rectangle - around 15"X48".
During this rolling process, allow the dough to rest several
times. Allow 10 minutes for each rest period, covering with plastic
wrap. When complete the dough should be 1/8" thick. Keep the
dough covered with plastic wrap at all times to prevent drying-out of the
dough!
7. Using a pizza cutter and a straight edge as a guide, cut long
strips from the rectangle. Each strip should be 1 1/4" in
width. See Picture #3
8. Beginning with the "tail" of the cornucopia, start
wrapping the long strips around the form. The best way to do
this, is to hold the form in your hand and rotate it slowly as
you thread on the strips. Moisten each strip lightly with water
and make sure they overlap by 3/4". Note: make sure
the end of the dough strips finish at the bottom of the form.
This will insure a seamless final product. See
Picture #4
9. Continue layering the strips until they are 3" from the
mouth of the form. This will allow room for the 3 braided decorative
collar. To make this, simply braid 3 strips of dough, and cut
it to length.
10. Prepare a sheetpan by covering it with aluminum foil, and
grease it lightly.
11. Prepare an egg wash. In a bowl, whisk together 2 eggs, 1
tablespoon of water and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Using a pastry
brush, apply the egg wash to the cornucopia.
12. Bake @ 400F for 15 minutes, then reduce the oven temperature
to 325F, and continue baking for an additional 2 1/2 hours.
13. Turn off the oven, open the oven door slightly and allow
the cornucopia to cool-down in the oven for 30 minutes. See Picture #5
14. Remove the cornucopia from the oven and carefully
remove the metal form. See Picture
#6
15. Return the cornucopia to the oven and continue baking at
250F for 1 1/2 hours. This will allow the dough to dry-out completely!
16. When the cornucopia has completely cooled, decorate with
assorted Autumn gords, fruits, pine cones and mixed nuts. See Picture #7
* To increase shelf life, seal the finished
piece with a spray acrylic lacquer.