Pip goes posing.
And posing.
As you can probably tell, we had a lot of snow overnight. The drifts were a foot deep in places (which is quite a lot for us). After dinner, I went to the fields to check up on the lamb. Their field has a lot of gorse bushes at one end, next to a large wall. At the lower end (it’s a steep hill), there’s a wall and then a road, but no gorse, so they wold be easy to spot. No such luck. I walked along the gorse at the top of the field, following the footprints in the snow. There was no sign of them. As I was headed back to the gate however, I spotted this:
It was mother ewe, and where she was, her lamb was sure to follow.
Thank goodness they were OK. They must have been in the gorse for most of the night, but at least they were safe. You could even say that they were lucky.
So, Lucky it is then.
This is the view from the top of their field.
The Mournes was one of the worst areas hit by the snow. Just look at Newcastle’s harbour.
Ben was thrilled to have the snow back.
You can tell by his face, no?
Thankfully, some of the ewes are inside out of the snow (sorry for the terrible photo – not much light in there).
And did I mention, this has been the worst snow for over 25 years?
Yeah, Pip’s glad of her home comforts now.
And for those of you who are interested, this is how I got the snow effect on my photos: A Simple Snow Effect Widget for Blogger Blogs.
Good day to you, I’m gonna go play in the snow.
~~~
Oh my goodness, Pip! That furst foto of you should be in a book or magazine or on a calendar....or someplace special! It is wonderful.
And I am so happy you found da baby lamb and da momma! Bless their hearts.......what a cold night they had!!
Beautiful photos! Pip is just gorgeous! Thanks for the snow widget tip! Happy Saturday!!!
Enjoy the snow! It looks beautiful and the pictures are great.
Just stopping to say Hi from the Saturday Pet Blogger Hop.
I wish we still had snow in Seattle. Our dogs love it.
Wow! You did get a lot of snow. Hopefully you aren't traveling for the holidays--I saw how bad the UK has been hit again! We only get rain here, but snow isn't far away!
Sage & her Mom
The only way I get to see snow is when others post pictures, so keep those snow shots coming!
(Hopping on...)
What beautiful photos!
Hey Pip!
Great pix of your beautiful snow. I personally love it and can't get enough. Yours must be pretty deep this time. What cute pix of the sheep. Didn't you wanna chase them? I sure would. Glad they're okay though. Happy holidays!
Grr and a Festive Woof,
Sarge
That is a lot of snow! Thank goodness your lamb found shelter. Isn't it amazing how name just come along? Lucky is perfect. Stay warm, and thanks for sharing the simple snow effect. I might give it a try.
Beautiful photos but I'm glad I'm not in the snow right now.
Blog-hoppin' with my Airedales, Alanis and Miro in Washington state, USA
Snow becomes you, Little Pip!
Glad the lamb was OK. Beautiful landscape!
It's a good thing Little Pip is growing so fast otherwise she might have gotten lost in that snow. I am so happy the mother and baby lamb are OK. My heart dropped when you said you couldn't see them. Do they just not like the barn?
You sure live in a beautiful place! My views are not so pretty, trust me!
Your pal, BIG Pip
lucky lamb indeed!
ben looks so, so thrilled about all the snow lol
So glad Lucky and his mama are OK. What a beautiful countryside.
I'd much rather have more snow that these sub zero temperature we are having. It's to cold to snow.
Stay warm and Merry Christmas!
Sandy & Ryker
What do you feed your dogs? Fly looks so good at 17.
wow what a beautiful place - and i think those are possibly the cutest dogs i'veever seen!
It may be cold but it sure is beautiful :)
Lucky, yep that fits :)
Waggin at ya,
Roo
PeeS: do you think that bloggy snow thingy could put snow on my house? Just wishin ;)
Thanks for stopping by my blog. Hope we can be pals? Pip sure is cute and lucky that lamb was okay.
Absolutely gorgeous pups (and ewes ;-) and spectacular photos!! We're following now from the Pet Blogger Hop! Nice to meet you all and enjoy the snow!
And thanks for the "snow" link!
Merry Christmas
Kelly & Crew
Big Mac, Molly & Moxie
angelpupscreations.blogspot.com
What wonderful pictures and what a sweet surprise in the gorse. We're just drowning in rain here in "Sunny" Southern California! HA!
I've been in my raincoat for days on our walks and the backyard is a swamp. I'd much rather romp in the snow. Do you think I'd make a good sheep dog?
Happy holidays!
Your Pal
Opie