Hey, friends! I have a cool post to share with you today–we're throwing it back to 2010 to talk about Elisabeth and Jon's wedding day at the Inn at Erlowest in Lake George! I first met up with Elisabeth in early 2010; she was recently engaged and she and Jon had made some major wedding decisions already, but was looking for some help with the day-of the wedding. At that time, KOWE was still in its infancy and I didn't offer any day-of coordination. Elisabeth and I immediately hit it off and I was really hoping that she and her fiance would hire KOWE!
Alas, Elisabeth and Jon didn't need full service planning. Fast forward to July of 2010 and I was still thinking about my conversation with Elisabeth; I reassessed my business model and thought, “Maybe I SHOULD offer a day-of coordination package!” So I called Elisabeth and Jon and pitched the idea to them and they said yes! Hence, the “One Special Day” package was born.
Elisabeth and Jon were married October 16, 2010 (yay, 3 years yesterday!) at the Diamond Point Community Church with their reception at the Inn at Erlowest. They had one of my most favorite ceremonies to date, too–it was very personal and very moving; not a dry eye in the house!
How amazing is the Diamond Point Community Church? It dates back to the 19th century! I LOVED the wreath on the church door by Renaissance Floral Design.
Back at Erlowest, this image shows how chaotic the bridal suite can be! The Elarios are good at concealing the craziness! Below, me and my wedding planner bag-o-tricks!
Alayne and her crew from Make Me Fabulous were on the scene, too.
Some details…the ring bearer bowl was engraved with a lyric from the song that played during their ceremony. It read, “the only truth I know is you.”
Sparkly shoes. Check!
Here's a fun shot of Elisabeth and her ladies.
And Jon and the fellas…one of the taller groups of groomsmen we've ever had (one of Elisabeth's brothers is 6'7″!).
Ready for our first look! Here she comes, Jon!
And he loves what he sees. These two are too cute.
A quick touch up…
I LOVE this photo of Elisabeth and her, Dad, Pete, getting ready to head down the aisle.
The inside of the Diamond Point Community Church–so quaint.
Jon and Elisabeth used Horsin' Around Trolley out of Saratoga to get them to and from the church and then the trolley transported guests from their hotel in the village to Erlowest so no one had to drive. Transportation is a must!
Love these shots down by the lakeshore.
You know me and forehead kisses…Elisabeth's beautful gown was by Cymbeline from Something Bleu Bridal.
Some detail decor shots! Elisabeth's Mom, Sue, found all of the white “ghost” pumpkins and their favors were tulip bulbs! This former Tulip Queen approved!
Getting ready to be introduced for the first time as Mr. and Mrs. Draper and walking in to the theme from the show “Mad Men.” Awesome.
Fun fact, this was the first wedding that senior coordinator, Megan, worked with me on back when she was my intern! Love you, Megan!
And I'll end with this one. Amazing.
I know I say this a lot, but it's so awesome to look back and relive these days! I'm also starting to get ideas for my own wedding, too! Hope you enjoyed this Throwback Thursday anniversary edition! What was your favorite wedding planning memory? Let me know in the comments!
Keep sparkling–