Challenges
Allsorts (135) - New Beginnings
Catch The Bug - Photo Inspiration
Sketch Saturday (188) - Sketch
Penny Black & More At Allsorts - Love/Hearts
Joanna Sheen - Celebrations
Fab 'N' Funky (102) - Something New (new lace)
Simon Says - Something New (new lace)
Delightful Challenge - Hearts
Digi Doodle Shop (89) - New Beginnings
Crafty Ribbons (10) - New Beginnings
Cute Card Thursday (198) - What's New (new lace)
Today sees the first challenge at Lili's Little Fairies and we hope you will all join in with this week's challenge which is 'New Beginnings'.
Following the great sketch I have used various embossed panels and added a small bit of red lace to one of them. I have coloured the image with promarkers and glitter and added a few heart gems before cutting and layering with a nestie. I have arranged the roses with punched leaves and curled stems and added stickles to the flowers. Hope you like it, thanks for looking.
Card Recipe
Stamps - LOTV
Flowers/Gems/Lace - Stash
24 comments:
this is beautiful! I love the white/red combo, thank you for joining our challenge at Digi Doodle Shop this week, hugs, martina
What a really pretty wedding card.
Thank you so much for sharing with us at Allsorts this week and Penny Black and More this month, good luck with both and wishing you a Happy New Year.
B x
This is so gorgeous, I love the very sweet image and very beautiful details. Thanks for joining us at sketch saturday.
Donna x
Love this card and the colours
x catherine
A gorgeous wedding card. I love the red and white together.
Thank you for joining us at Penny Black and More.
Clare x
Stunning card - love the touches of red and that image is so sweet.
Thanks for joining us at Digi Doodle Shop Challenges this week xx
Lovely colouring and beautiful flowers, gorgeous wedding card.
Thanks for sharing this with us at Penny Black and more, good luck;-))m
Beautiful card and the image is just gorgeous. Hugs, Claire x
Your card is gorgeous,love the image.Thanks for sharing with us at Digi Doodle Shop this week.xxx
Hi I adore the red against the white really is stunning with your colouring and those beautiful flowers !! Super for a new beginning ! Kitty ;0)
Beautiful wedding card with such a sweet image. Also love the embossing, and fab colour combo!
Thanks for entering our New Beginnings challenge over at Allsorts this week and good luck!
Hugs Nicola xxx
So beautiful,adorable image and love your new lace... Thanks for joining us at Fab'n'Funky this week.
Wendy xx
This is a great card, just adorable. Thanks so much for joining us this week at Catch the Bug!
Gorgeous card Christine :-) the image is lovely and the colours and embellies are fab :-)
thanks for joining us on the Simon Says Stamp Challenge :-)
luv
Lols x x x
Wow! Gorgeous creation! Beautiful card! Thanks so much for joining our photo inspiration challenge at Catch The Bug. ~~Sammibug,~~ Guest Designer for Bugaboo Stamps
beautiful wedding card, love that image!
Many thanks for joining in the first Cute Card Thursday challenge of 2012!
Happy crafting, Debxx
Gorgeous creation, thanks for joining Penny Black & More @ Allsorts challenge, good luck.
Happy crafting
Tracy x
Very pretty. And that image is just adorable. Great card!! Thanks for joining us this week at Fab 'n Funky. We hope to see you again on Wednesday for antoher fun challenge. Good Luck.
Hugs
xxx
Alexis
Fab 'n Funky DT Member
Such a sweet romantic card. Love your color combination. Perfect for this time of year. Thanks for joining us at the Digi Doodle Shop Best Challenges this week. **Linda
Beautiful card. i love the colors.
thanks for joining us at crafty ribbons.
hugs Tessa & Anke
Great card hun! Thanks for playing along at Joanna Sheen! xxx
Love that card you created!
Thanks for joining our "What's new" challenge over at Cute Card Thursday.
Hugs,
Kathrin aka Kruemel
Beautiful wedding card.
Thanx for joining us at Crafty Ribbons.
(hugs)
Trish (-:
Beautiful card. Thanks for participating in our challenge at Crafty ribbons. Hugs!