Some trunk rattling awesomeness for your Mother’s Day weekend.
Ty Dolla $ign – Beach House 3 Deluxe
Last year, Ty Dolla $ign blessed the masses with the third installment of his highly-rated Beach House series, which boasted a healthy 20 songs. Now, he delivers a Deluxe version of the project that contains six more tracks and new appearances from Wiz Khalifa, French Montana, Gucci Mane, Quavo and 21 Savage. A perfect album re-introduction for the Summer.
Check out Beach House 3 Deluxe (and get more recent news on Ty$) here.
Playboi Carti – Die Lit
I thought that Playboi Carti‘s self-titled release from last year was his debut album…turns out, that was only an appetizer preceding today’s official debut titled Die Lit. This go ’round, fans get 19 tracks and appearances from the usual suspects (and a couple of surprises): Pi’erre Bourne (his go-to producer that’s become a rising star in his own right), Skepta, Lil Uzi Vert, Travis Scott, Chief Keef, Nicki Minaj, Bryson Tiller, Young Thug and more.
Stream the album below.
Tee Grizzley – Activated
Tee Grizzley finally delivers his official debut album, Activated. The Detroit rhymer’s latest sees 18 tracks and appearances from Lil Durk (who previously connected with Grizzley on Bloodas), YFN Lucci, Lil Yachty, Jeezy, Chris Brown, Moneybagg Yo and Lil Pump.
Ace Hood – Trust The Process II: Undefeated
Following a slew of new singles, Ace Hood drops off the second installment of his Trust The Process series, dubbed Undefeated. This one contains a whopping 29 tracks, including previous releases “They Said,” “3 Bless,” “Testify” and “Be Calm.”
Suggested Articles:
NEW ALBUM FRIDAY: Desiigner, Rae Sremmurd, Preme & More
NEW ALBUM FRIDAY: Post Malone, Janelle Monáe, Wiley (& More)
You might also like
More from Albums/Mixtapes
Bobby Shmurda Drops New Single “Splash”
New York rap sensation Bobby Shmurda is back with another dramatic new single “Splash.” Producers Danny Wolf and ALOY’s moody keys …
Warner Records Announces Bruised Soundtrack Out November 19th
Warner Records in association with The Blueprint Group, Roc Nation, and Saloon Music announces the release of Bruised (Soundtrack From and Inspired By …
Travy Nostra Drops New Album ‘Leave Me The F*** Alone’
Today, DMV rising star Travy Nostra unveiled his new body of work titled Leave Me The F*** Alone, which comes …