T.
Good Morning Lu,
Beautiful finds!, Oh I love those plates painted with roses and the pink scissors .
wishing you a beautiful day Lu
hugs
Good Morning Lu, I really like your box that you gave a different look. Isn't it enjoyable to see what each of us favorite colors are? Hope you are doing o.k.. I enjoyed reading your blog this morning. Hugs and Prayers from Your Missouri Friend.
Lu,Thank you for your visit and comment on My latest post.I also love to go thrifting. Beautiful work on your finds.Those plates!Oh My! Perfect.
Dearest Lu,
They are really beautiful box and plates♡♡♡ I haven't posted pink-Saturday for such a long time. Your pretty pink items reminded me that I wish to post again someday (*^_^*)
PS> I've never seen and tasted the citrus before, p;)
Love you always from Japan, xoxo Miyako*
What gorgeous treasure you have found ;)
Smiles ~
Mari
Beautiful box, and I love those dishes! Happy belated birthday by the way!
Hello, dear one! What can i say??? you are talented!!! you turned some simple, plain things into beautiful, romantic accents!!!
My Fave is the pink "treasure box" with the pretty pink rose on top.....
hope all is well for you and yours!
hugs!!!
Jenni
Hi Lu, I love everything you share here is this pretty post of vintage treasures. Love the box you designed and the thread holding the scissors is a great idea. You are so talented and just have a vision to redesign pretty things.
The plates are so pretty and just speak to me too. I am a dishaholic for sure.
Have a great weekend dear one.
Sending hugs, Celestina Marie
Oh, the amazing "pretties" you've found. I am partial to the beautiful plates!
Jan ♥
OOOhhh what a pretty post. Love what you did with the trunk like box. You should enter it in the Creatve Box contest over at ECS blog. Darling pink planter too. I have to put blinders on when it comes to dishes...no more room!!
Take care Lu
*hugd*deb!
Oh Lu, I absolutely adore your metal pink flower pocket. Its sooo pretty!! I love thrift shops for finding treasures. Sometimes I find things that I mean to do over and sell, but end up keeping for myself.lol
Have a nice weekend!
xoxo
Kerri
It looks like you have some amazing thrift shops to find these beautiful pieces. I love the gorgeous plates.
Hope you have a great weekend my friend!
You did better than I do. I seem to never find things worthwhile. Guess I do not know what days to go. Love what you have done with your finds.
Lovely!! Happy Pink Saturday, Lu!
Hugs,
Anne
Great pinks all! Especially the pink metal thing. Happy Pink Saturday! Jenn
Lovely post and beautiful blog.. I love your background!!!!
Great finds! I love plates too. I always want to rescue them...yikes...need more room.
Beautiful blog.
Love,
Linda
Vejo que começou bem o ano com novos trabalhos e sempre tao preciosos.
beijos no coraçao.
Hi Lu,
Thank so much for visiting me and your lovely comment, wow,you plant vegetables too, happy to hear that.Honestly this year is our first time in our life ;). Learning by doing. next week hopefully good weather we will plant potatoes yeah potates ;)
I love making my hand dirty;)
It will take a couple of years for me to build a garden
wishing you a beautiful week my dear Lu
warmy hugs
Ayu