and nope
@soldier: based on what? Roshis feats does not even puts him Above Byakuya in speed nor durability department and no Character in DBZ Has FTL speed
@hiei_hyabusha said:@hiei_hyabusha said:
" @hitsusatsu11: so what? picolo daimao is even more powerfull than roshi why bring him? cause you know that roshi gets stomped?
and you dont see to understand that destructive is not all in a fight since its all you bring.
Alright, this has gone on long enough.Alright, this has gone on long enough.
" @hitsusatsu11: since when did physical attacks equal energy attacks piccolo is a city buster with energy attacks but physically he wouldnt knock a building down so all your piccolo scans are pointless considering that and the fact he's stronger then roshi yusuke on the other hands destroys mountains as an effect of throwing punches and causes cyclones. how is that a weak argument Vegeta still had enough energy to take on oozaru gohan and would have won if he didnt fall on him that and as kurigoh already stated kid goku was weaked but he put a hole threw piccolo stomach with ease. when did i ever say goku would lose that battle? "
" @MisterShin: cause you said so? i clearly told you it does not have the same properties of a ligning bolt + your scan only showns its above sound speed and going by your words itmakes it automaticaly lighning speed? yeah right "Wow it is this getting through to u.
@hitsusatsu11:Those look like punches to me
To bad like half the feats you shown are full of CIS and speculations
thats why ppl in dbz get hurt by ppl that have more ki then all the time and roshi cant bust a moon by punching it wtf lol.
.
"I haven't used CIS.@hitsusatsu11:
To bad like half the feats you shown are full of CIS and speculations
thats why ppl in dbz get hurt by ppl that have more ki then all the time and roshi cant bust a moon by punching it wtf lol.
Thats the energy from the punches, not the pure physical power as you implied.Thats the energy from the punches, not the pure physical power as you implied.Those look like punches to meThose look like punches to me
your trying to say an attack that worked on a peak human would work on yusuke is the dumbest thing ive ever heard "Strawman.
and \you havent proven that yusuke's demon aura wouldnt simply meltYusuke's Yoki would certainly melt away when faced with Roshi's aura.
you havent proven roshi could tank a punch for yusuke let alone a sprit gunAt best ANY attack Yusuke can produce is the same level as what Roshi dishes out BY ACCIDENT (e.i Guymao's castly incident)
and lets not forget he can just spam roshiExcept those Reiguns are weaksauce compared to attacks by Roshi.
havent proven roshi would even hurt yusukeNo offence to you, but this is a retarded statement.
show roshi reading someones mind in a fight? if he could he wouldnt get hit some much dont you thinkHe has read Namu's mind, and Tsuru Senin's.
the only thing you have to prove roshi lighting attack is stronger then suzaku is name calling lol which mean you have no idea what your talkin about "I'm sorry but Suzaku is a joke.
"The explanation is simple, if she can destroy a planet with a punch, that just means she was holding back when she headbuted Blue, because she didn't want to kill him, only bfr him, unlike Tao who wanted to kill him.
can you believe that? i haven seen a lot of posts about this "
How does one believe someone with less training and martial arts experience can beat the other? Master Roshi has ascended way beyond normal human level and if yusuke were to go up against him in prime or old age it would be a loss. The difference would be in his prime roshi would curb stomp yusuke so fast he would give up YHS and train under the turtle house. In a fight where you cant go h2h against the opponent you must fight with energy blasts and such but thing is Roshi has the upper hand there too. In that case you would have to try for you speed as a last bet but as mentioned roshi is capable of catching machine gun fire effortlessly. Based on feats it is an overall stomp for Roshi. But i do believe he would put up a good fight.
Equalize speed and give Roshi prep for a fully charged, fully powered Kamehameha that can pulverize the moon and he takes this with one blast. Remove any one of those advantages and any Yusuke from chapter Black or beyond outright roflstomps him effortlessly.
Submissions can take several hours to be approved.Save ChangesCancel