HOUSTON (Jan. 23, 2018) – Fabien Gabel, music director of the Quebec Symphony Orchestra, returns to Houston to lead the Houston Symphony in Ravel’s Daphnis and Chloé on Feb. 2 and 3 at 8 p.m. and Feb. 4 at 2:30 p.m. in Jones Hall.
Recognized internationally as one of the stars of the new generation, Fabien Gabel is a regular guest of the Houston Symphony and an audience favorite. Known for conducting music with French influences, Gabel leads the Symphony in a program of French and American classics, including the breathtaking musical sunrise from Ravel’s Daphnis and Chloé and Bernstein’s comic operetta Overture to Candide as the Symphony joins other orchestras around the world for Leonard Bernstein at 100, a worldwide celebration of the composer’s 100th birthday. Also on the program is Habanera, a piece by French composer Louis Aubert.
The evening’s featured soloist, Colin Currie, is hailed as “the world’s finest and most daring percussionist” (Spectator). He performs regularly with the world’s leading orchestras and conductors. Currie returns to Houston to perform Conjurer for Percussionist, Strings and Brass by leading American composer John Corigl.
RAVEL’S DAPHNIS AND CHLOÉ
Friday, Feb. 2, 2018, at 8 p.m.
Saturday, Feb. 3, 2018, at 8 p.m.
Sunday, Feb. 4, 2018, at 2:30 p.m.
Fabien Gabel, conductor
Colin Currie, percussion
Bernstein: Overture to Candide
Corigliano: Conjurer for Percussionist, String and Brass
Ibert: Ports of Call
Aubert: Habanera
Ravel: Suite No. 2 from Daphnis and Chloé
About Fabiel Gabel Français des Jeunes (French Youth Orchestra).
Following.
G. His rapidly-expanding U.S. presence has seen him leading the Cleveland Orchestra, Houston Symphony Orchestra, Detroit Symphony Orchestra, San Diego Symphony Orchestra and more.
Fabré Hamelin, Beatrice Rana, Gautier Capuçon, and Simone Lamsma, or singers like Jennifer Larmore, Measha Bruggergosman, Danielle de Niese, Natalie Dessay,.
About Colin Currie
Hailed as “the world’s finest and most daring percussionist” (Spectator), Colin Currie performs regularly with the world’s leading orchestras and conductors. From his earliest years Currie forged a pioneering path in commissioning and creating new music for percussion. In recognition of this commitment, he received the Royal Philharmonic Society Young Artist Award in 2000, a Borletti-Buitoni Trust Award in 2005 and the Royal Philharmonic Society Instrumentalist Award in 2015. Currie has premiered works. Currie’s 2017-18 season includes premieres of works by Andy Akiho, Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Brett Dean, Joe Duddell and Dave Maric. In the coming seasons Currie will premiere works by Helen Grime and Simon Holt.
Currie currently serves as Artist in Association at London’s Southbank Centre, where he was the focus of a major percussion festival in 2014, and this season Currie completes his three year term as Artist in Residence with the Oregon Symphony Orchestra. The 2017-18 season also features a series of solo recitals at the Schubert Club, Budapest’s Liszt Academy, Lawrence University and Sir James MacMillan’s The Cumnock Tryst Music Festival. Orchestral engagements include performances here and with the Antwerp Symphony, BBC Philharmonic, Het Gelders Orkest, National Youth Orchestra of Scotland and the Scottish Chamber and Brno Contemporary Orchestras.
Currie’s ensemble the Colin Currie Group was formed in 2006 to celebrate the music of Steve Reich and made its five-star debut at the BBC Proms. With Reich’s personal endorsement, Currie and his ensemble have become ambassadors for Reich’s Drumming, a work they have performed many times internationally. The group’s debut recording of Drumming is scheduled for release this season. Currie has recorded many concertos, solos and chamber works, including most recently works by Elliott Carter (Ondine) and Simon Holt (NMC). His recording of Rautavaara’s Incantations with the Helsinki Philharmonic and John Storgårds (Ondine) won a 2012 Gramophone Award, and his recording of Jennifer Higdon’s Percussion Concerto with the London Philharmonic and Marin Alsop won a 2010 Grammy Award.
Colin Currie plays Zildjan cymbals and is a MarimbaOne Artist. To learn more,
###