But the Curves Class I've been talking about it one taught by Rachel at Stitched in Color and it's all about getting more comfortable with sewing curves. Improv curves, precise curves, you name it. And it's been a FANTASTIC class! As you can see from my posts there have been a lot of fun projects in the class and I've probably only done half of them.
This skirt was a pretty simple project, but it was at the beginning of my attempts to sew clothing so simple was a good thing. I wanted something cheerful and springy. The bright yellow sunflowers definitely met that requirement!
The material I chose for the upper band was quite see-through so I added a layer of yellow material underneath it.
A very pretty skirt, Britt and it looks like it would be lovely and comfortable to wear! I've tried putting up hems by myself and it's NEVER worked... LOL!!! Thanks so much for the link back and shout out!
I cannot imagine doing the hem yourself, lol. Turned out great and what a fabulously cheery material. Thanks for sharing at our party this week.
I love the sunny yellow fabric that you chose. Thank you so much for sharing at Whimsy Wednesday at The NY Melrose Family. I can't wait to see what you'll share next week.
Thank you for linking this up at my launch party, linky party and a fantastic first guest post! The skirt is really cute!
Rosie xx
I love the fabric! So bright and cheery :) Thanks for explaining the curves class! Haha. It sounds like fun!
That's such a cute skirt! I'm a new follower and would love for you to stop by my brand new blog and follow, too :)
That is such a cute skirt!! I love the sunflower fabric! Thanks for sharing at Thursday's Temptation.
Jill
such a bright and cheerful skirt, great job!
What a bright fun color! It turned out great! Thanks for sharing at Terrific Tuesdays.
Rachel
adventuresofadiymom.blogspot.com
Beautiful skirt - such lovely bright fabric! Great work!
Thanks for linking to a Round Tuit!
Hope you have a fabulous week!
Jill @ Creating my way to Success
This is a very pretty pattern and a delightful, fun colour- thanks for sharing this with us on Natural Mothers Network too! Rebecca x
What a cute bright skirt! Perfect for spring! :)
Good job. The bright yellow is so cheery. I don't think I've ever hemmed a skirt by pinning it while wearing. I pretty much just measure and make it straight on the table. You have a great husband to help you out. Thanks for sharing your accomplishment.
Love the color!! I think it's great for a nice Spring day! :)