During the past two weeks, Star reporters witnessed vehicles throughout the Mile Square adorned with sheriff-issued placards, clogging up prime metered space and violating the geographic limits. / KELLY WILKINSON / The Star
More
The Marion County Sheriff's Department decided Tuesday to invalidate all of its 2,468 parking placards as of Oct. 1 out of concern that some drivers have been abusing the privilege by using metered spaces and loading zones as their personal free parking spot.
The decision comes a day after the city of Indianapolis said it was revoking its 850 placards, also because of misuse concerns.
Both agencies say they were prompted by an Indianapolis Star probe that documented instances where placards were not used as they were intended, hogging spaces in front of businesses intended for customers for hours at a time.
Unlike the city, the sheriff won't physically collect all of the bumper-sticker-shaped dashboard placards. But after Oct. 1, meter-readers will not honor them, Sheriff's Chief Deputy Kerry J. Forestal said, and drivers who use the placards instead of feeding the meter will be ticketed.
"I'm sure the vast majority of people haven't abused them," Forestal said. "And the few that did, or who misunderstood (the restrictions), must realize these are the repercussions."
The Sheriff's Department will soon reissue to its 1,077 employees a newly designed windshield sticker that is to be used only for short-term, work-related business.
The hundreds of non-employees who were issued placards -- including City-County Council members, political party officials and workers in the Marion County prosecutor's office -- won't get new ones or be able to apply for them.
That means that as of Oct. 1, and at least until a new policy is in place, no one is supposed to use a placard issued by the city or county.
Indianapolis Public Safety Director Scott Newman wants the City-County Council to create a new policy that overhauls existing city codes and provides more oversight on their use.
The Marion County prosecutor's office also hopes to work with the council on a new set of rules. The Star observed several employees of that office using their placards outside the intended area.
Spokesman Matthew Symons said the office would look into any misuses. He said the placards help employees who work off-site attend meetings and court proceedings Downtown. Until a new system is in place to ensure those staffers convenient spots, Symons said, the prosecutor's office will reimburse employees for commercial parking.
Combined, the city and sheriff plan to remove 3,300 placards from city streets by next week's deadline.
"It's great for us," said Joe Dayan, executive director of Indianapolis City Market, which relies on walk-up and drive-in traffic to support its fresh-food and mom-and-pop indoor vendors. "I think it will free up a lot of spaces. Not having parking options hurts us considerably."
Placards for decades were considered an inexpensive political perk. But in a thriving Downtown, they've become a nuisance for business owners who rely on the meters to provide quick access for potential customers.
Some placards designed for short-term business near the City-County building and the county jail have been used as an apparent substitute for a paid spot in a parking garage. During the past two weeks, Star reporters witnessed vehicles throughout the Mile Square parked in loading zones and at metered spaces.
Jim Enea, a Marion County special deputy assigned to the U.S. Marshals, uses his pass to park across the street from his job at the Birch Bayh Federal Building at 46 E. Ohio St.
"I guess I can drive all the way over to the Sheriff's Department and use their parking," he said after being told Monday of the sheriff's plan.
In his job as an intelligence analyst, Enea visits other police districts about five times a week, but he said not having a parking pass would not interfere with his ability to do his job.
"I'd walk (to the car)," he said. "It's no big deal."
The decision should provide more enforcement teeth to workers for Denison Parking, the city contractor, who were handcuffed by misunderstood or blatantly ignored policies on how the placards could be used.
"We're happy to do whatever the city asks us to do," said Scott Gould, a Denison general manager. "We don't know what that is yet."
As far as revenues for the city increasing, Gould responded: "You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know it will go up to some degree. What that is, who knows?"
Read more about this story in Wednesday's Indianapolis Star.
Contact Star reporters Tom Spalding at (317) 444-6202 and Heather Gillers at (317) 444-6405.