The median home value in Lakehead, CA is $155,700.
This is
lower than
the county median home value of $190,100.
The national median home value is $170,100..
Located on Highland Lakes Rd, Lakehead, Ca. Property size 4.5 acres of vacant, non improved land. Zoned for one residence.
This very well maintained 2br-2ba home is on 3 acres of pine covered land only 3 miles from lake Shasta (Shasta Marina) & only 20 minutes from Redding via I-5 freeway and 12 minutes from Rite Aid in Shasta Lake City. 10 to 15 degrees cooler than Redding in summer. Move in condition----GOOD VALUE.
Take the short drive to this stunner in the pines. Sitting in a secluded spot approx 5 mi. south of Lakehead. This clean home would be an ideal getaway or long term retirement home. Featuring an open floor plan, large entertaining deck w/ det work room, 2 car carport, all sitting on a usable .4 of an acre. Move in today and go fishing tomorrow. Great home, great location (on paved road-no dirt)
Welcome to this hillside home near Shasta Lake dubbed ''The Treehouse'' by the owners. 3 bed/2 bath, 1188 sq. ft., 2010 model mfd. home with many upgraded features. Cement plank siding, beautiful deck, gorgeous Alder cabinets, cathedral ceiling, dormer skyview window, central heat & air, whole-house fan, high-end, Energy Star appliances included. Everything in top-notch condition.
Beautiful 2,472 sf home with 4 car garage on 4+ acres. Functional great room layout in a fantastic setting w/gorgeous Lake Shasta views from most rooms, and wrap around deck. Tons of storage, huge laundry room & high end construction throughout. Sits on 2 legal parcels, located near Hirz Bay boat launch on the McCloud arm of the lake. Great full time residence, vacation home or vacation rental.
cb2279. Affordable lil' cabin for vacation or year-round living located within walking distance to Lake Shasta & near Sugarloaf boat ramp! Warm knotty pine interior, light-n-bright kitchen, laundry/mud room, loft bedroom & spacious living room with large newer windows & glass door leading to deck for outdoor entertaining! Asphalt drive with double cyclone gate leads to rear RV/Boat parking area.
Plenty of room to entertain and live the easy lakeside lifestyle in this 2300 square foot home in desirable Lakeshore Heights neighborhood. Close to boat ramps, market, restaurants, nightlife spots. Walking path to lake just a few doors down, access to off-roading just up the street. Lg. master suite, family room w/ fireplace, sep. living room with custom bar. 2-car garage + boat garage.
cb140. A rare gem! Private 17.48 native acres located behind the double wrought iron gates featuring year-round ''Fall Creek''! Quality craftsmanship & amenities thru-out this immaculate custom home, incredible sun/breakfast room, formal dining room, spacious living room w/wood stove, Master suite w/Jacuzzi whirlpool & private balcony! HUGE 30'x40' shop w/two 12' roll-up doors, RV parking galore!
cb118 Behind a gated entry lies this beautiful unique custom home overlooking Lake Shasta featuring quality amenities & details throughout! Gorgeous red oak floors, granite kitchen, custom cabinetry, beautiful tile, solid wood doors, recessed lighting, ceiling fans & two fabulous covered decks for relaxing & entertaining! The Master Suite is on first floor; Guest Rooms on second floor...
cb2142. Be ''King-of-the-Hill'' behind this private/remote gated area located very near the Salt Creek Arm of Lake Shasta & Salt Creek Boat Ramp! Spectacular panoramic views of lake & vistas beyond from large wall of windows! Custom Lindal Cedar home features a light-n-bright open floor plan which is an entertainer's delight! Large garage w/upstairs guest/in-law quarters! PROBATE ''AS-IS'' SALE.
Real Living Real Estate Professionals
1647 Court Street
Redding, CA 96001