"My husband knew that I found Therapeutic Touch helpful and comforting but didn't believe it really worked until Tama did a session for me and nurses came in after to update my vital readings. They found my blood pressure had lowered to a much safer level. My husband now believes there is more to this than meets the eye."
~ MB, Ladner
"Tama does a beautiful job of creating a safe space for transformation. Her meditation series feel like they were written specifically for you! I would recommend both her Therapeutic Touch and meditations to anyone open to trying them, you will not be disappointed!"
~ Denise, Delta, BC
"I have seen Tama a few times for a Therapeutic Touch session and feel much more connection with myself and a sense of greater calm. I hadn't been sleeping well for a long time and now I sleep very well. I also need less medication for pain."
~ AF, Richmond, BC
"I would recommend Tama's meditation series to anyone looking for a safe place to experience an amazing journey through meditation. These sessions have helped me strengthen my own meditation practice. Tama has been very supportive and instrumental in my shifting into my spiritual journey and practices."
~ LW, Ladner, BC
Meditation Information
Classes & Series
Testimonials for Therapeutic Touch and Meditation
For thousands of years the benefits of meditation have supported body, mind and spirit. Connecting with mindful presence can open a doorway to increased balance and wellness in many ways.
Tama offers various styles of meditation including guided imagery, Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR), and chanting. She also offers Mandala Meditation workshops for adults and also a youth/adult afternoon. Her Meditative Writing workshops (introduction and Level 2) offer a unique way to connect with the inner self. More information on the COURSES tab.
Her topics include self-compassion, loving kindness, being grounded in times of transition, mindfulness, caregiver support, Medicine Wheel, connecting with spirit and more. The Mandala Meditation workshops allow you to connect with the inner voice of intuition and quiet the inner critic as you are guided to let go of perfection and open to the wisdom of the mandala.
" Tama's gentle way always creates a basin of safety that is imperative when practicing the inner journey. I will continue to learn and grow with Tama for years to come." - T.M.
Classes and series are offered monthly - click on COURSES tab for dates. Tama is also available to travel so contact her to have a custom program developed for you. If you have a group of people gathering and want to connect with some inner stillness, Tama can join you for part of your event. She also has experience facilitating professional development workshops on self care and mindfulness with meditation.