!
Hogan & Hartson will have a lot more war stories in the lunchroom: It's landed Chuck Rosenberg, former U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia. He's supervised some of the Feds' highest-profile recent prosecutions, including NFL quarterback Michael Vick and convicted 9/11 co-conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui.
After keeping pace with the Rocket Docket's notoriously taxing calendar, Chuck had the sense to take a three month break, and go on "a lot of walks with my wife" before coming to private practice three weeks ago. The soft-spoken prosecutor joins the white collar and investigations group helmed by Ty Cobb. (We're resisting a baseball joke; oh wait, does that aside count?)
Chuck says he took a "terribly unsophisticated" approach to his job search. The simple reason for his choice: "The folks here seemed to be very nice." Don't be fooled by the nice guy act: Tose boxing gloves are a gift he got after restraining a defendant who tried to flee the courtroom upon his conviction. Chuck left a previous stint in private practice (Hunton & Williams) to serve the country after 9/11, which led to roles as counsel to FBI Director Bob Mueller and counselor to AG John Ashcroft.
Environmental guru David Weinberg of Wiley Rein tells us we may see an interesting legal development on climate change. During his campaign, Obama took the position that the EPA has authority under existing legislation—the Clean Air Act—to address CO2 emissions. With no climate change legislation on the horizon due to the economy, the Prez will likely test that theory. Once the agency gets staffed, David says, the EPA will try to regulate big emitters like utilities and refineries. If the CAA is unable to provide authority, the attention should increase pressure to change the law.
Another avenue around legislation: state regulation. Just after our interview, Obama urged EPA to review whether California should be granted a waiver from the CAA to implement its own auto-emissions standards (legal challenges have failed). Some of the stimulus bill will tie to "green" projects, but David tells us the next legislation directly affecting greenhouse gases will be this spring's expected bill bailing out Detroit's Big Three, which could contain support for green vehicles. Meanwhile, David's own concern is a 9th Circuit appeal, United Farm Workers v. EPA, on the relationship between pesticide regs and the Endangered Species Act.
Attorneys from Ballard Spahr (550 lawyers in 12 offices) descended on the Willard Friday for the firm's annual meeting, with a focus on new practice opportunities arising from the changing economy. No, they didn't go ultra-casual: This pic comes from MLK Day, when the firm closed its doors and encouraged lawyers in 25 different volunteer activities across the U.S. Here, local Ballard volunteers at NIH's wonderful Children's Inn: Shelah Lynn, Dan Tobin (way back there), Roger Winston, Rick Ballard (seated, a great grandson of a co-founder—the firm dates to 1886), Bill Newbrough and Tim Martin.
Send.