For our honeymoon ten years ago, we went to Toby’s favorite island in the Caribbean.
St. Barts.
It didn’t take me long to figure out why he loves this place so much. The plane ride over was breathtaking, as was the landing on the very short runway (because I was holding my breath). There’s the vibrant landscape, the soothing trade winds, the white sand (nude) beaches, the French take on Caribbean food, the winding roads along steep cliffs, the view at every turn. It was all those things, plus one more.
The best rum.
After long days in the sun, we spent our evenings at little open-air restaurants that serve up grilled lobsters and vichyssoise. Once our plates were cleared, the waiter would bring a bottle of rum to the table, along with two little glasses. Sometimes homemade vanilla rum, sometimes passionfruit. I thought they were both delicious, but Toby was all about that passionfruit. You could see the seeds swirling around in the bottle. We even brought some home with us, and once we ran out, I started making my own.
Passionfruit, also known as lilikoi, are funny little fruits. They’re ripe when the outside skin gets wrinkly. Once you slice them open, each one only contains a spoonful of pulp and seeds, but one little taste has so much concentrated tropical flavor. They’re more tart than sweet.
Just a few passionfruit will add so much flavor to one quart of rum. I also add a hint of lime zest and a bit of vanilla, just because. It’s slightly sweetened with cane syrup, but not so much that it’s watered down. It’s still got enough proof to pack a punch. The seeds are perfectly edible and have a very light crunch, but of course you can strain them out if you like.
Serve it over ice with a few slices of tropical fruit, maybe some mint leaves. That’s just to make it pretty, though, because once you taste it you’ll see it needs nothing at all. If you close your eyes, it tastes like a Caribbean sunset.
My recipe format isn’t working for me today, so for now I’m writing this one the old fashioned way…
Passionfruit Rum
1 cup granulated natural cane sugar
1 cup water
5 ripe passionfruit (lilikoi)
zest of 1 lemon or lime
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise, or 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups Caribbean rum
Bring the sugar and water to a boil in a small saucepan. Reduce the heat to low and simmer until it reduces, about 10 minutes, then allow it to cool.
Slice each passionfruit in half and scoop out the seeds into a quart-sized mason jar. Add the zest and vanilla. Pour in the rum and sugar syrup.
Give it a good stir, then put a lid on it. Allow it to sit for at least 2 weeks, if possible.
Serve it up with or without ice, and garnish with mint leaves or tropical fruit slices if you’re feeling fancy.
Cheers!
Yummy. And your pictures are gorgeous – what a beautiful place!
Thank you, Nicole, and yes, that place is so beautiful! I can’t wait to go back.
Danielle you need to bring some of that with you next time you are down on Pine Island!
Deal!
I bring the rum, you bring your girls!
Better have some left when I visit next week!
Toby’s waiting to share it with you!
You’re killing me with this! Passion fruit is my all time favorite. Rum too. 😉 I’m totally going to try and make this. I would love to see St. Barts some day – adding it to my (very long) list.
PS: I’ve been having trouble with my recipes lately, too. Are you using the recipe card plug in? I wonder what’s going on.
I was drooling over your tropical soul bowls complete with halves of passionfruit! Is there any other fruit that packs that much flavor? St. Barts is paradise. I have no doubt you’d love it.
I have no idea what the deal is with the Recipe Card plugin. Mine is from Yumprint. I emailed them but of course no response.
Yep, same thing. I just tried updating my recipe for tomorrow and it’s still not working. Super frustrating. I also e-mailed with no response. Will let you know if I hear anything. At least we have passion fruit (and you have rum).
I just read some WP support forums. Yumprint website is down. Everyone’s having the same problem. I hope they get it together, but in the mean time, you’re right. I do have rum. Cheers, Coley!
I love love LOVE passion fruit. And I would love it even more with rum! This would be a great Oscar’s night cocktail!
I agree, Stacy! Cheers!