After our big Summer special we return for the most phenomenal podcast on the planet Throwback Tuesday Episode 14 where we review one of the worst films of the series Twilight Breaking Dawn Part 1. Enjoy!
Directed by: Bill Condon
Produced by: Wyck Godfrey, Karen Rosenfelt & Stephenie Meyer
Written by: Melissa Rosenberg & Stephenie Meyer
Starring: Kristin Stewart, Robert Pattinson & Taylor Lautner
Release Date: November 18, 2011
Rating: PG-13
Running Time: 117 Minutes
Music: Carter Burwell
Studio: Temple Hill Entertainment, Summit Entertainment, Total Entertainment & Zohar International
Distributed by: Summit Entertainment
Budget: $110 Million
Podcast: Play in new window | Download
Z, you sounded so defeated reviewing this film like it sucked the soul out of you or something. I completely agree with you guys though but if you had to remake twilight would you follow the books? change the cast and if so who would you cast?
You guys are gonna laugh at this but just got done listening to the daily spill today and heard Cyrus yell, “THE FUTURE.” How do you guys feel that your inspiring people to use your catchphrases hahahaha.
P.S.
Since this show started I notice on Facebook and Twitter people posting Throwback moments on Tuesdays hahaha. Great show as always and fuck Twilight.
Let’s play a game! P1 I want you to say one positive thing about Twilight: Breaking Dawn 1 and Z I want you to say something positive about The Host. No back handed compliments but something you generally mean that is something that is good about both of these films. Game on guys.
Glad to see you guys will be doing a martial arts film. Ip Man is definitely one of the best, what would you consider one of your favorite martial arts film?
Damn, this movie is horrible. I really have no idea why Twilight was such a success. Can either of you guys explain this to me? Anyway, nice show guys. This is the only podcast show that I listen to daily. It doesn’t matter if I have heard the shows before or not. You guys are great and I can’t wait to hear more from you.
Z, I heard you on eopodcast before talking about Resident Evil. Why aren’t you on the show anymore? How could you put up with Sock or whatever his name is? He didnt even give any of the later movies of Resident Evil a chance. I can’t even listen to the shows anymore, because its just a lot of yelling. Thankfully you two don’t do this and you guys seem like you respect each other’s opinions. That is why you guys have a great show. Can’t wait to listen to more from the two of year.
TPO, I’m not going against Lehew. But have you ever thought of having Z as a co-host on Movie Spoilers?
I love the Twilight series. I understand why guys hate it. But it isn’t aimed at guys. So why is there so much hate for the series?