If you have removed and returned (or will soon return) an "Envelope Wall" envelope, thank you.
If you survived Pastor Tim's five-alarm chili at the cook-off or celebrated Shrove Tuesday at the Pancake Supper, thank you.
If you have been to a Youth Gathering, hope to experience a future Gathering, or never plan on going to a Gathering, yet still served at a youth fundraiser in the last three years, thank you.
If you have given to Good Shepherd's general fund since 2016, thank you.
Each act of generosity has helped the 28 Good Shepherd youth and adults headed to the 2018 ELCA Youth Gathering reach their fundraising goal. Yes, we have officially reached it! Our group will be able to fly to and from Houston as well as stay in a hotel for the duration of the event, thanks to your generosity.
One way they will show their gratitude is by fully experiencing the Gathering and sharing their stories upon their return. Another way is by passing on the generosity shown to them.
They will pass on the generosity by loving the people of Houston with whom they come into contact with.
They will pass on the generosity by taking part in the Gathering's service learning day, serving the community of Houston alongside 30,000 other Lutheran youth and adults.
They will pass on the generosity by tithing their earnings from this year's fundraisers to provide over $100 worth of new books for the children of Houston, to help establish Christian congregations in prisons across the country through Prison Congregations of America, and to support farmers across the globe through ELCA World Hunger.
They will pass on the generosity by continuing to serve in three fundraisers a year so the next generation of students and adults can experience the Gathering as they have.
The theme of the Gathering, "This. Changes. Everything.," is meant as a reminder of God's unconditional grace for everyone. Please know that, through your support, not only have you "changed everything" for our participating youth and adults, but the agape' love will ripple in Houston and beyond, changing everything for so many. Thank you!
Blessings,
Andrew Buck
Sunday's Readings
Acts 1:1-11
Psalm 1
Ephesians 1:15-23
Luke 24:44-53
Final Health & Healing in Nicaragua session this Sunday
, 9:30-10:30 am in Fellowship Hall -
In this three-week SME class, Pastor Tim is sharing his experience working with a cohort from Wake Forest School of Divinity, their trip to Nicaragua in January 2018, and how Good Shepherd might take action. All are welcome!
Sunday School Classes for Children & Youth will not meet this Sunday.
Join us next Sunday, May 20 for our final classes of the year.
Just a Couple More Sundays to Grab an Envelope from by May 20. Get a glimpse of the wall
here
.
Support your Kicknic Team & Mnene Orphans; Buy Your Hats This Sunday -
Two different colors of hats are on sale for $15 in the Narthex on Sundays through May 20.
Penny Wars continue!!
Memory Cafe - Monday, May 14, 4:30-6:00 pm
Individuals experiencing dementia and their caregivers who wish to socialize with others in similar circumstances are invited to participate in this
fun, safe, welcoming evening for fellowship, dinner, and MUSIC! To learn more,
contact the Memory Cafe team
.
Coffeehouse - Friday, May 18, 7:00-8:30 pm
Youth and adults are encouraged to sign up
here
to serve at this evening of food, fun, and music for adults of all abilities!
It's almost here! 3rd Annual Kicknic is next Sunday, May 20 at Baileywick Park at 2:00 pm.
Join us to play and/or cheer! Bring a dish to share.
More information about upcoming events is available in
this week's
bulletin announcements
.
Health and Healing
for
Brent, Catherine and Ella Upton; Meg Stoyle-Corby; Steve Gross, cousin of Cheryl Kruse; Zachary Weig, friend of the O'Neill family; Pam Kaiser and Mark Gilbreth, members of the Kaiser family
.
Thanksgiving
for Emilie Vivarelli on her Holy Communion; and for the 3rd graders who received and blessed their Bibles last week: Olivia Brenton, Evan Eaton, Erin Haugland, Mason Hefner, Jonas Hutchinson, Lilah O'Hara, Lillian O'Neil, Ella Parrish, Luke Stigall, and Sydney Worrell
.
Sympathy
to
Scott Buell and family at the death of his uncle, Ken Buell
.
For the Orphans of Mnene Parish
, including Cristabel Zhou and Reward Gumbo.
Cristabel is 22 and has successfully completed her vocational program to work as a "till" (cash register ) operator. After a long search without any job opportunities she began an attachment (internship) at a hotel in Zvishavane, working in the kitchen, learning to cook and bake. This past February she began training/working at the reception desk. She hopes to get a job at the hotel once she completes her attachment. Her Mail For Mnene partners are Holly Livingston and the Dickson family.
Reward will be 28 next month. This past January he graduated from Midlands State University with a degree in Agriculture Sciences! He has been job hunting, but many companies are still in "wait & see" mode until the new government is firmly in place. His Mail For Mnene partners are the Hoyle and Kuchenreuther families.
Visit the Wittenberg Information Center in the Narthex for photos of this week's orphans and more information on the Mnene Ministry.
STAY CONNECTED