International
For more information, contact:
Elizabeth Cardinale
Palm Computing, Inc.
(650) 237-6390
Elizabeth_Cardinale@3Com.com
Amy Nemechek
A&R Partners for Palm Computing
(650) 363-0982 Ext. 252
anemechek@arpartners.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
3Com Bolsters Support For Palm Computing® Platform Developers With Extended Tools And
Solutions Provider Program
Santa Clara, Calif., -- September 11, 1998 --
Palm Computing, Inc., a 3Com company (NASDAQ: COMS) today announced expanded support for its community of more
than 10,000 developers of the Palm Computing#174; platform. In a move to significantly extend its tools
offerings, 3Com has obtained the exclusive right to market Metrowerks' CodeWarrior® for Palm Computing® Platform,
the premier software development tool for the Palm Computing platform. The company has also enhanced its Solution
Provider Program with additional benefits to help developers create and promote solutions based on the industry's
leading handheld platform.
As part of the agreement with Metrowerks, 3Com will market exclusively CodeWarrior for Palm Computing Platform
as a 3Com-branded product. The two companies will work together to develop and support future releases of
CodeWarrior for Palm Computing Platform, the leading tools package for creating applications that run on
Palm Computing platform devices, including the Palm III; and PalmPilot connected organizers, the
IBM WorkPad PC Companion, and the SPT 1500 device from Symbol Technologies. CodeWarrior for Palm Computing
Platform is now available through Palm Computing sales channels, including online at, and will
continue to be available through existing Metrowerks distribution channels.
"CodeWarrior is a powerful tool for developing applications for the market-leading Palm Computing platform,"
said Mark Bercow, vice president of strategic alliances and platform development for Palm Computing. "Adding a
tool like CodeWarrior for Palm Computing Platform to our developer offerings makes it easier for developers
to work with us and helps to further establish the Palm Computing platform as a mature and widely-supported
development environment."
Release 5 of CodeWarrior for Palm Computing Platform will be available to new and current customers by the
end of September through 3Com and Metrowerks. A one-year subscription is priced at U.S. $369 and covers the
current version of CodeWarrior for Palm Computing Platform plus one free upgrade as well as the Conduit
Development Kit from 3Com. Developers may renew the subscription for an additional year of upgrades
for $199. 3Com plans to introduce an enterprise edition of the product later this year. Current
CodeWarrior for Palm Computing Platform customers will receive free updates to Release 5.
"This agreement is great news for Palm Computing platform developers," said Jean Belanger, chief executive
officer, Metrowerks. "We're pleased to be working more closely with 3Com on the premier development tools
for this highly successful handheld platform."
"The CodeWarrior tools enable us to easily integrate our product's vertical market applications with the
Palm Computing platform," said Ron Goldman, vice president, mobile computing systems, Symbol Technologies.
"This agreement strengthens our partnership with 3Com and allows developers to use a proven product with
3Com's full support."
Enhanced Solution Provider Program
3Com also announced an enhanced Solution Provider Program offering developers a wide variety of easily
accessible information including tools, technical support and marketing opportunities as well as a new
password-accessible website exclusively for developers. Upon registering for the Solution Provider Program,
developers will receive regular notification from 3Com of development news including new products, tools
updates and event opportunities. Under the new program, Palm Computing platform developers have access to
pre-release updates of conduit and software development kits (SDKs), development training modules,
web-based support, a developer forum and a product discount program. Potential co-marketing opportunities
include exhibition opportunities, advertising and public relations opportunities, and third-party solutions
featured in InSync Online, 3Com's targeted email information service to Palm Computing platform device users.
Developers may register for the Solution Provider Program or find out more about the program at. Developers can join with a Basic membership for free
or apply for Platinum membership, which certifies solution providers whose products successfully meet
compatibility, quality and usability standards.
About the Palm Computing Platform
The Palm Computing platform is the foundation for the market-leading PalmPilot and Palm III connected
organizers and other handheld computing products from Palm Computing's strategic partners, all leaders in their
respective markets. These partners include IBM, which sells the IBM WorkPad PC Companion into the enterprise
market, Franklin Covey, which supplies the Franklin Electronic Day Planner for the training and time management
industry, QUALCOMM, which has licensed the Palm Computing platform for development of its next-generation
wireless communication solutions, and Symbol Technologies, whose expertise in bar code scanning and wireless
LAN and WAN connectivity are taking the Palm Computing platform into various vertical markets with its
Symbol SPT 1500 device.
About 3Com
3Com Corporation enables individuals and organizations worldwide to stay more connected by communicating and
sharing information and resources anytime, anywhere. As one of the world's preeminent suppliers of data,
voice and video communications technology, 3Com has delivered networking solutions to nearly 200 million
customers worldwide. The company provides large enterprise, small and medium enterprise, carriers and
network service providers, and consumers comprehensive, innovative information access products and system
solutions for building intelligent, reliable and high performance local and wide area networks. For further
information, visit 3Com's Web site at, the press site at, or Palm Computing's web site at.
###
3Com and Palm Computing are registered trademarks, and Palm, Palm OS, PalmPilot and Palm III.