This is exactly what 1000 workers have done at the Shanghai Shinmei Electric plant in China, having been told they have just two minutes to answer any call of nature and that they would bel be fined 50 yuan ($8) if they are late once and fired if they are late twice…Naturally, this didn’t go down too well, so they held their Japanese and Chinese bosses hostage for a day and a half until the bosses agreed to reconsider the rules…
300 riot police were brought in to enforce management’s desire to eliminate the all too human need to take a piss or shit from the production process. The bosses agreed Doubtless some faceless and inhuman bureaucrat worked hard on a ‘time and motion’ study and concluded that the workers ‘motions’ were literally eating into the company’s profits…It’s a shame the workers didn’t torch the factory, as happened during the recent China/Japan dispute over resource rich island territory in the South China Sea, where nationalism dictated the destruction of Japanese owned factories. Still, workers need to make a living, and fought bravely for their right to give a shit, though not for their Chinese and Japanese bosses who are evidently united in their greed and contempt for working class people…
(Workers barracks in China, complete with ‘suicide nets’)
THE RICH ARE OUR MISFORTUNE.
2 responses to “NEED A PISS? KIDNAP YOUR BOSS AND GO ON STRIKE!”
I recently had a temp job at a call centre. We were told that every time we went to the toilet we had to press the personal time button on the phone, and too take no more that fifteen minutes personal time a day. Health & Safety says otherwise.
This bullshit is everywhere; what a shame they didn’t torch the fucking place
I have had a succession of crap jobs but one of the worst was as a checkout girl with Morrisons. I honestly felt like a battery hen stuck in that till cubicle, no one was allowed to go to the loo between breaks unless they were pregnant .
The staff canteen menu featured a selection of food that was beyond it’s sell by date, mmm very appetising and made us all feel valued , not !