Fine Living: A Driving Tour Of Germany
'
Are we products of our environment? When it comes to German cars, the answer is an unequivocal ja! The country’s varied, challenging terrain and prevalence of speed have factored into the equation of fine cars engineered to run hard. Three days in Germany may not seem like much time, but considering some of the nation’s best cars are produced in the lower regions, you will have ample time to sample them, push them and immerse yourself in their makers’ heritage.
All prices are listed in U.S. funds.
Day 1: All about the bimmers
BMW M6 CoupeYour first stop will find you at the multi-brand, multi-vehicle BMW headquarters. Just as they continuously improve their vehicles, they don’t let their facilities slip much either. BMW Welt is designed to leave a strong impression on its visitors. Pronounced velt (meaning world) the multipurpose complex promises to astound with its design and contents. This may also appease some critics who feel the historical displays don’t measure up to the superior factory tour, which even attracts non-car enthusiasts.
Being steeped in BMW culture will no doubt leave you yearning to unleash one of these incredible cars. This is understandable and the company enables you to do just that with their Driver Training series. Varying greatly in cost from about $130 to over $1,100, courses cover subjects from everyday driving safety to advanced techniques or even defensive driving for chauffeurs — just in case. Only instead of Kevin Costner with a bad haircut, you’ll learn from pro drivers who take this sort of thing very seriously — even by German standards. After learning how BMWs are built and the proper way to experience the ride, enjoy a light bite to eat from one of the restaurant choices within BMW Welt as you reflect and re-energize for the rest of the day.
Although there’s much to see and do in Munich, our ambitious itinerary suggests we keep moving. Besides, you’ll be itching to explore the M6’s capabilities, especially now that you have the driving know-how. Head out on the A9 for Ingolstadt about 45 miles north. You’ll find it a charming old-world city, but tonight you’ll be staying in one of its most modern buildings. Hotel im GVZ strikes a nice chord between contemporary and inviting with spacious and well-appointed rooms for about $170. Even better, it’s conveniently close to the Audi complex, where you’ll start your day tomorrow.
For dinner, drive to the central city where you’ll find Maximilian Restaurant at the Hotel NH Ambassador, which rewards the eye with warm tones throughout the dining area. The international and regional meals are all satisfying, but you’ll really enjoy the Mediterranean dishes.
About the car: A lot of luxury coupes match their owners’ profiles: sporty at heart, but a bit soft on the outside. Although the standard 6 Series is no Bavarian cream puff, the M6 manages to achieve even greater heroics. At the heart of it all is a 500 bhp V10 that launches you from 0 mph to 60 mph in 4.5 seconds and swiftly reaches its governed top speed of 155 mph (rumors suggest 200 mph is no problem without the limiter) with grace and poise.
Feed your speed demon with Audi and Porsche...