by Steven Stosny, Ph.D. and Patricia Love, Ed.D.
Sex has many advantages to both people involved.
Here are just a few.
Because you said so. Even though you may not have promised to “love, honour,.)
Sex rewires you for pleasure:
Every time you share a positive experience with your partner, your brain comes to associate him or her with pleasure. You can transform any relationship simply by increasing the number of enjoyable times you share together..
Heightened sense of smell:
After sex, production of prolactin surges, causing stem cells in the brain to develop new neurons in the brain’s smell center (olfactory bulb)..
Reduced depression:
Prostaglandin, a hormone found in semen, modulates female hormones. Orgasm releases endorphins, producing a sense of well-being and euphoria.
Pain relief:
During sex, levels of oxytocin surge five times their normal level, releasing endorphins that alleviate pain. Sex also prompts production of estrogen, which reduces the pain of PMS.
Healthier heart:
Women who have more sex have higher levels of estrogen, which protects against heart disease.
Cure for the common cold:
Once-a-week sex produces 30 percent higher levels of immunoglobulin A, which boosts the immune system.
Better bladder control:
Sex strengthens the pelvic muscles that control the flow of urine.
Peppy prostate:
Some urologists believe they see a relationship between infrequency of ejaculation in men and cancer in the prostate. In this case solo sex works just as well, but why out on all the other benefits?
Shiny hair, glowing skin:
For women, extra estrogen from orgasm makes hair shine. Sweat produced during sex cleanses the pores and makes skin glow. Serotonin produces the after glow of sex.
Calming effect:
Sex is ten times more effective than Valium, with no side effects.
Relief for a stuffy nose:
Really. Sex is a natural antihistamine. It can even help combat hay fever and asthma.
Firmer tummy and butt:
Regular sex can firm your tummy and butt, plus improve posture.
Boosts immune system:
Endorphins stimulate immune-system cells that fight disease.
Forever young:
Sex actually slows down the aging process. It lowers cortisol levels in the bloodstream, which reduces stress and slows down the aging process.
Protection against Alzheimer’s and osteoporosis:
Women who have more sex have higher levels of estrogen, which protects against Alzheimer’s and osteoporosis.
Euphoria:
Who wouldn’t want more? The best way to get a natural high is sex!
New! CommentsHave your say about what you just read! Leave me a comment in the box below.