Soaps Boards
::
All My Children Forum
::
Fan Fiction By Patti G Episode #25
Please register and
login to be able to post in this message board.
FAN…
It seems Griffin and Zoey are getting to know each other but I love that Griffin is getting to know Zach's little sister Zoey but Zoey she is still trying to adjust to her new life of being a Cambias which I am sure can't be easy for her but if she has her family there for her helping her through it as well as Griffin helping her out then I am sure she will be fine but I couldn't help but see the chemistry between Zoey and Griffin, definite chemistry there if I do say so myself I wonder if Ellie's mother is someone from Pine Valley's past because if she is...then I wonder just whose daughter Ellie really is? But how about Ellie's father? That is the bigger mystery now isn't it? Reggie and Cassandra definitely have chemistry if you ask me, and if there is an African-American supercouple that you could definitely build up or at least have a slow build towards it is definitely them because Reggie reminds me so much of a young Jesse and Cassandra reminds me so much of a young Angie, so many similarities And Krystal needs to tell her family about her illness and fast before they find out some other way
I think Kendall will wake up soon enough if she hasn't already and if she has woken up then she is most likely faking her coma but I don't get why Kendall would do that, why she would put her loved ones through that especially if she's awake and she could let them know But Zoey being here for her family while trying to adjust to this new family, it's admirable on her part because Zach he has never had a sister before and Zoey being an only child she has never had any siblings so it would be great to see her and Zach's brother-sister relationship touched upon more in the sense that they do bond with each other more And Zoey she has her brother's step-son her step-nephew Spike Ryan & Kendall's son to look after, but also her nephew Zach & Kendall's son Ian and her niece Zach & Kendall's daughter Amelia to look after considering their mother is in a coma or she's pretending to be, and their father Zach isn't always around all the time so the kids have no one else to depend on well actually that's not true because they have Kendall's sister their Aunt Bianca But in any event since Halloween is coming up, I wonder what you have planned in terms of your Halloween episode of your Fan Fiction series considering Halloween is the time for murder and mayhem on soaps, so I wonder if someone is going to die or come pretty close to dying? And considering Halloween is coming up soon I wonder if you will have the kids trick or treating or in Halloween costumes? How about the grown-ups in town? I wonder if there will be a costume party somewhere in town and if there is...then I definitely suggest Wildwind the Cortlandt Mansion or the Chandler Mansion
For the Thanksgiving episode of your Fan Fiction series I wonder if you have anything planned as far as your Thanksgiving episode goes? Just who will be spending Thanksgiving with whom? Which families will be celebrating the holiday together? But also wondering if we will see any returns for Thanksgiving?
A.J. I wonder if he still lives with his mother Marissa because if he does then why not have a teenage A.J. move into the Chandler Mansion? Who even lives at the Chandler Mansion now? I'm sure A.J.'s grandfather Adam and A.J.'s step-grandmother Brooke live there so if they do why not just have A.J. move in with them? Adam and Brooke could always use having more people at the mansion they have a lot of space and not to mention the mansion is practically empty since Adam and Brooke it is just the 2 of them If Adam's grandson A.J. were to move in then it would be perfect considering Adam's children are so far away, his son J.R. is not around, his daughter Colby is not around either, his other daughter Hayley she's not around, and Adam he has another son out there if I'm not mistaken...his son Miguel Reyes Chandler, Miguel is not around either And Adam's nephew Stuart's son Scott he isn't around either And it would be nice if A.J. started to take an interest in his family company of Chandler Enterprises, have A.J. follow in his grandfather and father's footsteps by having A.J. take an interest in Chandler A.J. can become an intern at Chandler learning from the very best learning the business from the ground up
Your comments are s always spot on. You are going to enjoy the new episodes and stories.
I can assure you that Kendall is not faking her coma. Things are going to be interesting when she does wake up and her reaction to Zoey ad Zoey's presence in their lives. As for a Halloween episode I don't think so as that is a holiday that is very visual and better suited to the screen.
nothing planned right now.
I mentioned in an earlier episode that AJ asked JR to move back into mansion
But I do hope that there is a Christmas episode of your fan fiction series because I wonder for Christmas just who will spend Christmas with whom and which families will celebrate Christmas together since Christmas is such a grand-scale holiday
Please register and
login to be able to
post in this message board.
« Go back to topic list