An on-site injury is one of the worst things that can happen to your company. As a business, you are responsible for the safety of all employees as well as the safety of customers that might be making use of your premises. Every company is required to do as much as they can to ensure the safety of employees. But accidents happen all the time and on-site injuries are hardly uncommon in just about any type of business. These occurrences are always bad for your business finances and especially for your reputation. Some companies like those in the mining industry and those that produce rare goods are able to survive a bad onslaught because their product is still needed. Those who provide products that are not quite as highly in demand can easily end up with closed doors when the public refuses their services after your company name got damaged.
Here are a few good tips to keep your business name positive and reputable when dealing with an on-site injury.
Consult a Personal Injury Lawyer
The best thing you can possibly do is to consult with a personal injury lawyer. These experts deal with these types of cases on a daily basis and they know exactly what the next step will be for the injured employee. They can give you professional advice on the best possible outcomes for these cases, they will tell you how to protect yourself and your company and can even assist with negotiations between you and the injured employee in order to prevent disputes.
Stay Calm
It is important to never act out in range when your buttons are being pushed by family members or the public. Stay calm at all times and try to uphold a professional image at all cost.
Think Before You Speak
It is important to always think before you speak. Don’t reveal too much about the incident to the public and don’t reveal your plan of action just yet. You never know when these words might count against you in a case.
Try To Do the Right Thing
On-site injuries can be incredibly expensive to your business when you are held liable for the medical expenses of the employee and if you still need to compensate a work salary while the employee is on recovery leave. But it is important to try to do the best thing you can for both you and your employee. Work closely with your lawyer to get the best possible solution for both of you.
Prevention Is Always Best
It is incredibly important for your company to have all the right safety precautions and warning signs in place before anything bad happens. If all the needed steps were taken, you can get out of these situations a lot easier because it will become clear that your business wasn’t to blame for the incident.
Request a Medical Examination
For all on-site injuries, it is incredibly important to request a medical examination to ensure that no injuries are faked. Testing for drugs and alcohol can also count in your favor and could make a huge difference in the outcome of your case if the employee was intoxicated.