6.4 Standards of Righteousness and Morality
6.3 “You are the earth’s preserving salt,1 if the salt loses taste, how will it regain saltiness? Such salt is good only for disposal and for stepping on. You are the world’s light. A hilltop city cannot be hidden. Neither is already lit candle2 hidden under a bowl. It is placed on a holder to give its light to those in the house. Let your light so shine for all to see your good works, and give glory to your Father who is in heaven.”
Mar 11 .”
6.4 “You have heard for ages, ‘Do not kill, or you will be judged.’ But I say, whoever is angry with his brother must stand trial; and whoever calls his brother a fool must face the court, or whoever says, ‘You idiot,’ is in danger of hell fire.
Mar 12 Therefore, if while bringing your gift to the altar you remember that a brother has something against you, first go and make peace with your brother. Then return and offer your gift. Settle1 quickly with your opponent out of court, lest the judge convicts you to imprisonment until you’ve paid the last coin.”
“You have heard it said, ‘Do not commit adultery.’ But I say, whoever looks at a woman lustfully, commits adultery in his heart. If your right eye lures you to sin, pluck and cast it out. Better one part perishes than the entire body be cast into hell. If your right hand causes you to sin, cut and throw it away. Better lose a hand than your entire body going into hell.”
Mar 13 “It was also said, ‘Whoever divorces his wife should give her a letter of divorce.’ But I say, whoever divorces his wife except for fornication makes her an adulteress, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. And a woman divorcing her husband and marrying another commits adultery.”
“Again you’ve heard it said to the ancients, ‘You shall not break oaths, but keep your oaths to the Lord’. But I say, don’t swear at all: either by heaven, it is God’s throne, or by earth, it is His footstool, nor by Jerusalem, it is the great King’s city. Neither swear by your head, you cannot make one hair2 white or black. Let your answers be ‘Yes’ or ‘No.’ Anything more is of evil.”
Mar 14 “You have heard it said, ‘Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth.’ But I say, do not resist evil. To anyone who hits you on the right cheek, turn the other. And to anyone suing for your shirt, give also your coat. Should someone co-opt you for a mile, go two. Give to whoever asks you, and do not refuse the borrower.” “You have heard it said, ‘Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’ But I say, love your enemies and pray for your persecutors, so you will be sons of your heavenly Father, who makes the sun to rise on the evil and the good, and the rain to fall on the just and the unjust.
Mar 15.”