World Heritage Cultural Sites in Romania
World Heritage Cultural Sites in Romania
Depart:
Private Tour-Land Only
13 Days/ 12 Nights
Daily April 1-October 31, 2007
Price per Person:In a double room $2889
Tour operates with a minimum of 2 travellers
Package Includes:12 nights superior tourist class and 1st class accommodation all with private facilities
Breakfast daily
1 lunch
11 dinners including dinner and folklore show in Bucharest
Round trip airport transfers
Bucharest city tour
English speaking guide throughout
Transport by air conditioned car, minibus or coach depending on the number of travellers
Sightseeing as per itinerary
Hotel taxes and service charges
Day 1 Bucharest
Upon arrival in Bucharest you will be met and transferred to your centrally located hotel. Remainder of the day is at leisure to begin your exploration of the Romanian capital known as "Paris of the East." Overnight Hotel Lido or similar.
Day 2 Bucharest
After breakfast you will be picked up from the hotel and taken on a tour of the city. Inside visits to the Village Museum and the Parliament Palce, the second largest building in the world after the Pentagon is included. You will also see the Revolution Square, Patriarchal Cathedral and the Triumphal Arch. This evening you will enjoy dinner with a folklore show. Overnight Hotel Lido or similar.
Day 3 Bucharest-Tulcea (Danube Delta)
After breakfast you will be picked up from the hotel for your drive to Murighiol, crossing the Danube at Giurgeni and drive through the interesting Dobrogea province. Boat transfer to your floating hotel. Dinner and overnight at the Anastasia Floating Hotel.
Day 4 Danube Delta
Today you will admire the youngest territory in the world. The Danube Delta came into being only 10,000 years ago and is still in the process of formation. Its scenic beauty and the wild life here, the Delta is known as a birdswatcher paradise are among the most interesting in Europe. You will relax while sailing through the narrow channels of the delta observing life along its banks. Lunch included. Dinner and overnight at the Anastasia Floating Hotel.
Day 5 Danube Delta-Piatra Neamt
Today you will cross the Danube by ferryboat at Galati and then drive northwards to the Bucovina region, which has gained worldwide recognition for its beautiful churches and painted monasteries. You will visit the Agapia and Varatec nunneries, two fine examples of Romanian religious architecture and monastic life. Dinner and overnight Hotel Central or similar.
Day 6 Bucovina Area
Today you will enjoy a full day tour of the Bucovina area where you will see the most representative painted monasteries such as Moldovita, Arbore, Humor and Voronet, known as the Sistine Chapel of Eastern Europe. These churches are now on the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List. You will also visit the Sucevita painted monastery, which has the richest frescoes in Bucovina. Dinner and overnight Hotel Central or similar.
Day 7 Piatra Neamt-Hoteni
Today you will drive through the scenic Prislop Pass to Maramures, the land of wooden churches and carved wooden gates, unique fold costumes and traditions, where ancient Romania coexists with modern times. On the way to Hoteni village, you will admire the superb wooden architecture of the Barsana Monastery and the 18th century Rozavlea wooden church, with its beautifully preserved interior paintings. Experience local life through your home-stay. Dinner and overnight in a farmers house.
Day 8 Maramures Area
After breakfast you will enjoy a full day tour of the Maramures region. Enjoy Calinesti and Desesti wooden churches, listed as UNESCO World Cultural Heritage sites. You will also visit the unique Merry Cemetery in Sapanta Village. Since it is Sunday you will see the locals attending Sunday Mass wearing traditional folk costumes. Dinner and overnight in a farmers house.
Day 9 Hoteni-Cluj Napoca-Sighisoara
In the morning, visit the Greek-Catholic wooden church at Surdesti Village, also part of the UNESCO World Heritage List as the tallest wooden structure in Europe. From Maramures you will then descend into legendary Transilvania, known as the land beyond the forests, whose cultural heritage has been shaped by a mixture of peoples, languages and traditions such as Romanian, German and Hungarian. On the way to Sighisoara you will visit the city of Cluj Napoca to see its impressive Catholic Cathedral of St. Michael. Upon arrival in Sighisoara free time to explore the citadel on your own. Sighisoara has been added to the UNESCO World Heritage Cultural List, as being the best preserved and continuously inhabited early medieval citadel in the world. Dinner and overnight Hotel Sighisoara
Day 10 Sighisoara-Biertan-Sighisoara
In the morning you will enjoy a walking tour of Sighisoara including an inside visit to the Clock Tower which now doubles as the local history museum and to the Church on the Hill. In the afternoon drive to Biertan and visit the fortress church, which has been declared part of the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Site. Dinner and overnight Hotel Sighisoara.
Day 11 Sighisoara-Brasov-Bran-Sinaia
This morning you will drive to Brasov for a city tour that includes visits to the St. Nicholas Orthodox Church, the Museum of the first Romanian school in Transilvania and the Black Church, the largest gothic style church in Southeastern Europe. Continue to Bran Castle, built in the 14th century by the merchants of Brasov to protect the border between Valahia and Transylvania, also known as Dracula's Caslte. In the afternoon continue to the mountain resort town of Sinaia. Dinner and overnight Hotel Palace.
Day 12 Sinaia-Bucharest.
This morning you will visit the Peles Castle, the former summer residence of King Carol I and the Sinaia Monastery a beautiful example of Valahian-Byzantine architectural style and the first building in Sinaia. In the afternoon drive through the picturesque Prahova River Valley to Bucharest. Dinner and overnight Hotel Lido.
Day 13 Bucharest-End of Tour
After breakfast you will be taken to the airport or you can extend your stay in bustling Bucharest. You can continue your tour to historic Bulgaria or to Hungary.
Additional nights in Bucharest are available