About
We offer mindfulness-based life, work and relationship coaching, counseling, and guidance to individuals and corporations. Our work is based on the field of neuroscience, mindfulness and positive psychology. We help individuals and organizations achieve top performance.
The Work Mindfulness Project focuses on the science of mindfulness-based awareness, as a way to realign individuals and teams towards greater performance, to improve and enhance day-to-day experiences. In 2014, Dr. Joseph Loizzo, Dr. Miles Neal and Sharon Salzberg attended the first event at NYU in Manhattan. Our focus has always been small groups, individuals, and communities, to enhance awareness, through the relationships to self, others, community, values, ideals, and ongoing, moment-to-moment practice. Our programs are scientifically proven to relieve stress, increase awareness, and help individuals generate a higher level of performance, with tools to strengthen stress resilience, engage the brain, and enhance choice.
How does mindful awareness work in our daily lives? What is it that happens when we are mindfully aware? We work with clients throughout several areas of life. In the diagram below we outline what key areas help to make up a balanced life. These offer perspective and are by no way limited to the work that we might do together.
Our approach incorporates the Health & Wellbeing model outlined in the image to the right. We look at you, your values, and what really matters to you, to help you develop Mindful Awareness. Being fully aware, you are paying attention in-the-moment so that you can make conscious, proactive choices about every aspect of your health.
The series of eight concentric circles represent your self-care, which includes all the choices you make on a daily basis that affect your physical, mental, and spiritual health. Our coaching and counseling services are one part of a professional care program that we recommend you receive as a part of the prevention and treatment of illnesses or diseases, including both traditional and complementary medicine, such as acupuncture, yoga, tai chi, and other mind-body therapies. The outer ring represents the people and groups to whom you are connected, reflecting your community.
Why work with Work Mindfulness?
Because Your Life Matters to YOU
We coach you and can help you identify blind spots and opportunities to overcome obstacles and focus on what’s important. We can help you accelerate your success and fast forward towards your goals. We help you to be accountable and we are blunt when necessary to help you to be accountable to yourself. We do the following things for you.
- We help you to figure out where to find the answers, based on the things that you want for your life
- We co-create with you, based on your goals, to be powerful and capable in areas that are important to you
- We help you to look at life, find balance, based on your beliefs, ethics, morals, hopes, and dreams.
- We let you lead and help you to look good and feel great
How it Works
The neuroscience shows that the brain lights up and forms more connections More awareness for the present gets us motivated to experience more of life. Research and insights provided here, by the NCBI show the research behind it. By focusing on specific goals we mindfully we focus more, our brain gets lit, wired, fired up! Neurons that fire together wire together. Our brain cells communicate with one another via synaptic transmission–one brain cell releases a chemical (neurotransmitter) that the next brain cell absorbs. This communication process is known as “neuronal firing.” The neuroscience shows that mindfulness and a positive mindfulness-based coach approach offers proven results. Being.