Accessibility in the Workplace ResourcesHiring a person with different abilities or creating an inclusive environment for everyone makes good business sense. Advantages for your business are endless - here are just a few.
Accessibility Standards for BusinessOntario is developing, implementing and enforcing accessibility standards in:Customer ServiceTransportationInformation & CommunicationsBuild EnvironmentEmployment
The first standard that business must comply to by January 2012. Fines will begin to be enforced starting December 2012*Accessibility Standard for Customer ServiceWhat does this mean to your business? Businesses and organizations in Ontario are now required to provide customer service that is accessible to people with disabilities.Click HERE to learn more - it's easier than you think!
Below is a list of resources to help you and your business become more accessible.
Government Links
Ministry of Community & Social Services - Ontario Provincial government web site for the Ministry of Community and Social Services, and the Accessibility Directorate of Ontario
How do I file my accessibility report?
Accessibiity for Ontarians with Disabilities Act - Information on The AODA, Accessible Customer Service Act
Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act - PDF copy of the act
Ministry of Finance - Ontario Minister of Finance, information from the Ministry of Revenue
Ontario Municipal Accessibility Toolkit - the Association of Municipal Managers, Clerks & Treasurers of Ontario - with financial support from the Ministry of Community & Social Services help the municipal sector meet its responsibilities under the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005
Funding Links
The Toronto Enterprise Fund - The Toronto Enterprise Fund (TEF) supports social enterprises that employ people who are socially marginalized.
The Enabling Accessiblity Fund - The Enabling Accessibility Fund supports community-based projects across Canada that improve accessibility, remove barriers, and enable Canadians with disabilities to participate in and contribute to their communities
Resources/Articles
Meta Vocational Current Newsletter
Accessibilty Website.
Job Postings - Durham Region Employment Network provides a great avenue where businesses can post their employment opportunities - FREE!
Accessibility for the Tourism & Hospitality Industry
Tips & Tricks Tool Kit - provides you with all the key information you need in one handy reference to guide you on your process to compliance. It includes a workplan, an audit checklist, and templates for you to download to adapt to your organization's policies and procedures manual
Job Postings - Durham Immigration Portal provides employers with an avenue to post employment opportunities with diverse needs
Human Resources Professionals Association - webinars, articles
Martin Prosperity - Releasing Constraints: Projecting the Economic Impacts of Increased Accessibility in Ontario
Accessible Website Guidelines - Information on guidelines and suggestions for making Web sites accessible appears on the World Wide Web Consortium's (W3C) web site. (resource from Accessibility Experts)
Choose the Right Word - the Ministry of Community and Social Services has a section under the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities, is a great resource with tips that can help make your communication with or about people with disabilities more successful.
What Are Alternate Format Materials - Find out more about alternate formats and who provides them.
Who Makes Alternate Format Materials and How Can I Get Them? - Find out who provides alternate format materials with links to the organizations who provide them
Ontario Chamber of Commerce - Has a program called Accessibility Works - it explains The Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005 while providing Information on who must comply, key dates and what the standard is all about. Learn more about the customer service standard and more - all for businesses!
Town of Whitby- Accessibily plans, Town Accessibility Committee, legislation and more...
Durham Region Employment Network - a ton of resources to help businesses understand the steps to hiring a person with a disability or resources to help businesses become accessible.
Durham Region Employment Network - Ability Guide
AODA Training & Testing for the Customer Service Standard
Accessibility ExpertsEdie Forsyth(905) 718-33431288 Ritson Rd North, Suite 372, Oshawa
Accessibility Professionals of OntarioColin McCarthy(647) 477-874584 Silverbirch Place, Whitby
Abilities Centre(905) 665-8500500 Victoria St W, Whitby
Rotary at WorkJoe Dale(905)706-4348
Durham Region Employment NetworkDonna McAllister(905) 720-1777
Town of WhitbyMichele Cotton, Accessiblity Officer905-430-4306cottonm@whitby.ca
Corporate Training Services - Durham College905-721-3347