Neutrogena Triple Moisture Daily Deep Conditioner Reviews. — 8 years ago
This review is: Helpful | Not helpful | Inappropriate | 6 of 6 people said helpful
love this stuffvery moisturizing. Finally found something that would absorb into my dry hair, nothing else seemed to be working. You get soft moisturized hair with no frizzieessss — 8 years, 1 month. — 8 years, 2 months ago
great for everyday useI have very tangley curly/wavy hair that I need to condition every day, but many conditioners seem to thick for daily use. I love this conditioner, and the shampoo that goes with it, and they smell amazing! — 8 years, 2 months ago
HydratingThis product does what it says - it moisturizes the hair. It's a great value - a little goes a long way. — 8 years, 2 months ago
This review is: Helpful | Not helpful | Inappropriate | 2 of 2 people said helpful
Great ProductMy hair is thick, lots of it, colored and highlighted, this conditioner works wonders, makes my hair shine, soft and manageable,leave it in your hair for 5 minutes while you shower and rinse off. you will feel the difference. — 8 years, 4 months agoILUVMAKEUP | 3 reviews
This review is: Helpful | Not helpful | Inappropriate | 2 of 3 people said helpful
Great ProductI have very dry,coarse,wavy hair. I have used every shampoo and conditioner under the sun (including spending way too much money buying designer products) and this conditioner/shampoo line beats them all. Price is affordable and I have compliments on my hair all the time. Packaging could be better for those of us who wear glasses ; cant tell the difference in the shower betwen shampoo and conditioner — 8 years, 5 months agoelizabethlayne | 1 reviews
This review is: Helpful | Not helpful | Inappropriate | 4 of 4 people said helpful
Love this product!I have color-treated hair that was starting to get dull and breaking a bit. I've used this condition for just a couple of weeks, and I am back to getting daily compliments on my hair. My hair hasn't been this soft since I had virgin hair in my teens ! — 8 years, 7 months agoJamieElise | 26 reviews
Good StuffI love this product..It makes my hair so soft and I have wavy, thick hair. My only complaint is that they don't make it in a bigger size because I go through it in 2 weeks.. — 8 years, 9 months ago
Want silky hair? Try this conditioner!This conditioner makes my hair so soft and silky, I just can't get enough of it! It is a little on the expensive side for me, so I don't use it every day, but try at least once a week and anytime I really need my hair to look fabulous. My hair is halfway down my back, so anything that can keep it from tangling and at the same time make it soft and smooth is tops in my books! — 8 years, 10 months ago
This review is: Helpful | Not helpful | Inappropriate | 2 of 2 people said helpful
Back
to top
My Reasons for Reporting This
