TAUNTON — Tony Abreau said it seems as though some Taunton drivers didn’t get the official memo about Thursday’s nasty snow storm.
“Governor Baker and (Taunton) Mayor Hoye told everyone to stay off the roads,” said Abreau, assistant commissioner of the city’s public works department, on Thursday afternoon.
“It’s crazy for anyone to be out in this, but the fools are out there driving — they’re stuck all over the place,” he said.
Other than an inordinate number of drivers who got stuck in snow — which was a common occurrence from mid-morning through early afternoon — Abreau said snowplow and salt-truck drivers were undeterred.
He said first priority was to clear main thoroughfares, which in Taunton includes Routes 44, 138 and 140.
The next order of business, Abreau said, was to plow arterial roads and then side streets.
Trucks equipped to deposit rock salt dropped their loads on roads before the plows came out in force.
Police Lt. Michael Tremblay said there were only “a couple” crashes involving vehicles, none of them serious, during Thursday morning and afternoon.
But he said the fact that so many drivers were getting stuck and stranded on city roads created a real headache for the police department.
“A lot of people,” Tremblay said, “discarded the warnings. They shouldn’t be out there. They just don’t get it.”
Tremblay said officers at first responded to stranded motorists and tried helping by calling tow-truck operators.
But he said it reached a point where he could no longer afford to dispatch sector cars to respond.
Even AAA, he said, by the afternoon stopped responding to its club members whose vehicles became disabled and stuck.
“They’re responding just to crashes,” Tremblay said, adding that “there are a lot of drivers who are stuck and remain stuck. It’s just too crazy.”
Abreau said he noticed some homeowners snow-blowing their driveways while the snow was still falling, which he said wasn’t a particularly good idea.
“They’re better off to just wait until it’s over,” he said, to avoid having to do it again after trucks have plowed the streets — which typically results in snow being pushed in front of driveways.
As is the case in any major winter storm, Abreau said the DPW now has to get rid of plowed snow piled high on streets.
He says most of the snow will be trucked to a site in Raynham owned by G. Lopes Construction Inc., which was contracted by the city to provide many of the trucks used on Saturday.