Assortment may vary by store.
Don't let the rain keep you from your daily walk; invest in treadmill machines that provide more of a challenge than traditional speed walking. Kmart offers an entire inventory of treadmills with a maximum incline up to 20 percent, some of which include internet browsing and iFit Live compatibility. Find name brand treadmills from ProForm, Smooth Fitness and Free Motion, and choose from the Epic TL 1700 or Healthrider H95T treadmill with MP3 compatibility and an iPod dock.
On light workout days, invest in yoga and Pilates equipment and accessories. While you rest your muscles from the previous day's workout, yoga helps to stimulate your mind and body with a series of exercises that burn calories and relieve stress. Find exercise balls, mats and complete yoga kits, such as the Sunny Health or Zon pink yoga kit that contains a slip-proof mat, two blocks and a strap. In addition, the Jillian Michaels Ultimate Pilates kit contains an exercise ball, two soft weight balls, a dual-action hand pump and an instructional DVD with a variety of exercises.
Choose the right women's activewear that fits loosely and provides the comfort you need while you train. Shop brand names such as Everlast, Athletech and Joe Boxer, and invest in tops, hoodies, jackets, pants and shorts in sizes from extra small to triple extra large. Select from fleece, knit and woven fabrics, such as Athletech women's ski pants with an elastic waist, zippered and cuffed leg openings and a hook and loop back pocket closure.
Men's activewear is also available including golf apparel, hoodies and athletic tops, pants and shorts. Pick from Athletech, Everlast, Protege and Russell Athletic in sizes ranging from small to extra, extra large. Everlast fleece sweatpants fit loosely and keep you warm on colder training days. Moreover, Athletech Windwear pants shield you from the wind as you walk, run or jog. Ventilated and moisture-wicking activewear is available, such as the Everlast men's quarter-zip pull-over and Protege young men's basketball shorts. Whether you're training to get into shape or playing a game of hoops with the guys, find comfortable men's activewear that fits.
Engaging in various exercises is a great way to get in shape and lose weight. Shop Kmart for more affordable treadmills, yoga equipment and activewear for the entire family.
Advertisement