Approved any club equipment whilst training.
The main headings of the below are:
All approved training to be approved by the committee
All members are to be a financial member of Tugun Surf Club
All members must hold the appropriate award
All members must be currently proficient
Water Risk Assessment form completed
Training Attendance Log completed
ALL APPROVED TRAINING TO BE APPROVED BY THE COMMITTEE
Not to be confused with a member simply going for a casual swim or paddle/ski using his or her own equipment. To ensure that the committee is aware of all official training or use of club equipment, the Management Committee require you to submit a training schedule for the rest of the off-season. This is to include:
All members that intend to train – List of names
The location that this will occur i.e. Tugun Surf Club, Currumbin Creek, etc.
Nominate an alternate training location should the surf conditions at Tugun Surf Club be considered too rough or dangerous.
Any club equipment that will be used
The time and date/s that this will occur – If this is ongoing, please give start and end dates inclusive.
An example of this could be:
I/We request permission to conduct ‘XXXX’ training at Tugun Surf Club for the following members between:
Chris Bindley
Greg Hamilton
Madison Ruygrok
Murray Seaton
Paul Bell – Sweep.
The time and dates will be from Sunday the 08/07/2018 at 7:30am – 8:30am and every Sunday following up to and including the 12th August 2018. We wish to advise an alternate training location being Currumbin Creek. As it is Surfboat training we request the use of the ‘XXXX’ Surfboat as well.
Yours Sincerely, Joe Member
With the above, if the committee is not aware of the training and it is not minuted at a Management Meeting, it is not approved, no exceptions. This means that should an injury occur, you may be personally liable, especially if you are the sweep of a boat. Sectional captains, coaches and sweeps should do this on behalf of their teams so that there are not hundreds of separate requests but you must take personal responsibility for making sure that your coach, sweep or sectional captain has done this on your behalf.
ALL MEMBERS ARE TO BE A FINANCIAL MEMBER OF TUGUN SURF CLUB
All training members must be a current financial member of Tugun Surf Club, or if you are a financial member of another club, have the approval of that club to participate in approved Tugun Surf Club training. This approval will need to be from both the club that you are a member of and Tugun Surf Club executive committee. If you do not have this, you are not approved to train.
ALL MEMBERS MUST HOLD THE APPROPRIATE AWARD
This is at a bare minimum Bronze Medallion but includes IRBC/IRBD, Sweeps Accreditation and even a Tractor or ATV accreditation. Although, in light of recent events, the ATV is used exclusively for the sole purpose of surf lifesaving and should not be used to tow boats on and off the beach.
ALL MEMBERS MUST BE CURRENTLY PROFICIENT
This means that you need to have successfully completed the proficiency that occurred some time between 1st July 2017 – 31st December 2017 or completed your Bronze Medallion after this date. This should cover you up to the 31st December 2018. This year’s proficiencies starting after 1st July 2018 will cover members up to the 31st December 2019.
RISK ASSESSMENT FORM COMPLETED
This means every session. If you do not have a copy of the risk assessment form. These forms must be collated by the designated sweep or coach and be submitted to the Administration Office at the end of each month. Please contact the Administration Office if you require printed copies of this form.
TRAINING ATTENDANCE LOG COMPLETED This means every session. If you do not have a copy of the training attendance log. This Log must be collated by the designated sweep or coach and be submitted to the Administration Office at the end of each month. Please contact the Administration Office if you require printed copies of this form.
Note – The outcome of not adhering to the above steps or processes will mean that the activity will not be approved. This means that the member will not be insured and also possibly liable for any cost of damage to any club equipment or person (think medical bills/loss of income). The executive will also investigate each and every known breach as a serious incident. Should you have any further questions in relation to this, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Kind Regards,
Chris Bindley Lifesaving Director Tugun SLSC