How to register: Please fill
out and email the registration form then mail the tuition to Mekorot.
Alternatively, you can mail the registration form with your tuition.
Timely registration allows Mekorot to prepare adequate source
material and seating. Courses are offered subject to advance enrollment.
Fees: Mekorot tuition and registration
fees, as well as donations, allow Mekorot to compensate its faculty,
and function financially. Donations to the Dr. Shoshana Kurtz
Scholarship Fund are welcome to provide scholarship assistance.
Thank you for your continued support.
Membership: Members of Mekorot are a vital group dedicated to supporting intellectually-challenging text study. Through the generous donations and support of people like you Mekorot continues to make a difference in the Jewish community of Toronto today and for the future. Membership is eligible for a charitable tax receipt.
Member - $500Members enjoy unlimited admission to any course.
Student Membership - $150 Must be full-time high school or university students. Enjoy unlimited admission to any course.
Student rate: Mekorot has a high school and university student rate offering a full year courses at $136 per course and a 50% discount on mini courses.
Scholarships are available,
and requests for fee adjustments will be handled confidentially.
Please call Mekorot at (416) 877-2050.
Please check off course(s).
Tuition
Membership Level $
Donation: $
Yes I would like to volunteer for Mekorot
Total: $
When you have completed the
order form please click the submit button and you will be taken
to your Course Confirmation. Please print it and send it along
with your tuition cheque to the address below within 14 days.
Our refund policy: an administration fee of $15 is charged for refunds. Some courses require minimum attendance and if cancelled, a refund or credit will be provided.
Mekorot Institute of Torah Study for Women
201 Glen Cedar Road
Toronto, Ontario
M6C 3G9
Courses
Faculty
Administration
Special Events
Webmaster