The world is in turmoil and many are speculating on potential outcomes. I know personally the difference
between sympathy and empathy. World drama becomes personal tragedy when it invades our space, our family, and our bodies.
One group says read our books and prepare for the financial meltdown. They say the stock market will crash bigger than it did the first time. What if they are right?
Another says no one is safe from the tornados, earthquakes and other natural disasters happening across the world and across our nation. – fault lines run everywhere and it is only a matter of time… What if they are right?
Yesterday someone told me the government has purchased 1.6 billion rounds of ammo, and are preparing for massive civil unrest when unexpected changes and control are revealed. What if they are right?
Medical records show that it is not disease that is the #1 killer, but human error, both in surgery and prescription error and side-effects. Natural news shows alarming government intervention to prevent people from using alternative healing methods, and some say the government is controlled by big pharma. What if they are right?
Medical resources now say one in two males and one in every three females will get cancer. What if they are right?
Many say if I do not follow their warnings, and run with them to prove their charges, I will be an outcast… What if they are right?
I could go on and on, but the point is the same. What will I do if they are right?
I will run …make that RUN to the Lord for direction, for comfort, for strength, and for provision to not only help our family to survive but to be a blessing to as many as possible for as long as we can.
Mark 13:7 “And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, do not be frightened; those things must take place; but that is not yet the end
Luke 17:23 “And they will say to you, ‘Look there! Look here!’ Do not go away, and do not run after them.
1Pet. 4:4 And in all this, they are surprised that you do not run with them into the same excess of dissipation, and they malign you;
Until then, the Message outlines it well…
Get your info from the Book of Truth:
1Tim. 4:7 Stay clear of silly stories that get dressed up as religion. Exercise daily in God—no spiritual flabbiness, please!
Discipline yourself to be in the Word daily
1Tim. 4:8 Workouts in the gymnasium are useful, but a disciplined life in God is far more so, making you fit both today and forever.
Share what you have been given, from where you have been placed
1Tim. 4:11 -14
- Get the word out. Teach all these things.
-.
Continue to grow in skill and knowledge
1Tim. 4:15 Cultivate these things. Immerse yourself in them. The people will all see you mature right before their eyes!
1Tim. 4:16 Keep a firm grasp on both your character and your teaching. Don’t be diverted. Just keep at it.
Both you and those who hear you will experience salvation.
That’s what I’ll be doing. How about you?