Let me start off by saying… I can’t stand Umbrellas!! Maybe... it’s the City girl in me. I don’t really know. I just want to get where I am going, and fast! Umbrella’s hinder that.
Or should I say the lame a$$e$ that carry them!
Why must you poke me? Why do you think...
You+Umbrella= The Whole Damn Sidewalk??!!!
Seriously… did you not see my Solo a$$ scurrying along the sidewalk, in my lane might I add?????
Nooooo, you have to interrupt my portion of the Walk way, Jab me ruthlessly, and then keep on walking like I invaded your space!!
What’s even worse… are those inconsiderate jerks that dayum near take your eye out, then turn and inspect their Umbrella while you obviously need medical attention!! WTH?!!
Umbrella: I do not like you!
Umbrella People: I dislike you even more!
Now I know how bikers feel in the bike lane. It’s like Cars have the whole dang Highway and you really need to intrude on a tiny path that’s not yours? WTH?!!
Sometimes, just sometimes in a dreadful downpour a little shelter is okay... just when you think Umbrella People are inconsiderate and selfish they suprise you. You know the ones..those folks that say... “Oh dear you are getting soaked would you like to share my Umbrella?” Nice right? WRONG!!!
How is this sharing when they proceed to hog the whole dayum thing, jab you repeatedly, and then not even walk you to your destination.. it usually ends with.. “oh here’s my car, good luck stay dry!” WTH??? It reminds me of those people that honk and wave when you are walking down the street. Seriously... no offer for a ride? I'd rather you pretend you didn't see me then honk and wave!
Umbrella’s in the City Suck. They definitely need a designated A$$hole with an
Umbrella Lane or a Special "I'm a Jerk" Sidewalk.
29 comments:
thanks for stopping by and following me today.. Here from following Friday..
Friday following you too! :)
Following you back!!!
I am with you becasue I often find myself not usin umbrellas all though I own several
Friday Following you too!!!
<3 your perspectives!
Thanks for stopping by. Following you too. Friday Follow is great!
Found you thru Friday Follow. Wow, what an amazing story you have to tell. Cant wait to read more about You and your life :0)
LOL! I wonder if there's an umbrella hell for all the ones I've lost which probably somehow made it over to LA just to torment you... ;-)
Happy Birthday!
Visited Friday Frustrations and was looking around when I found your blog. What an interesting, and kind of funny blog. I've been here before, but now I'm following. Very good interesting blog. Have a great weekend!
He He... such a funny post- I'm anti umbrella too. I can't imagine juggling that along with the three kids. If I manage to be without the crew, you'll probably find my walking with my face up to greet the raindrops.
Friday Follower!
Thanks for following me! I am now following you from Friday Follow!
LOL. Remind me to never bring an umbrella around you.
Woohoo! Thanks for linking up at Friday Follow. I am already following and stopping over to say hello. Happy Friday Follow!
~ Lynn
Thank you for the follow. I am now following back. have a great friday
If you're gonna umbrella, you need to share. End of story. Yes, I made umbrella a verb.
I only use an umbrella if it's a huge downpour. Usually I just walk briskly because I'm not going to be out too long. I can't get away from the laptop for too long! (jk)
I your newest follower, btw.
Happy Friday Follow! Glad I found you. :)
haha love it! my favorite is when my boyfriend offers to share the umbrella with me, and my whole half ends up soaked because we both don't fit under the tiny thing. I'd rather just get my coat wet!
Just stopping by to say hello. I followed you last week. Hope you have an amazing weekend.
Felissa
Happy Friday Follow - Rita @
This is hysterical! And you're so right! These people who offer to share, don't!
:)
You are right! It is impossible to share an umbrella!
Happy Friday Follow!
I agree with you about those pesky umbrellas..it is rainy right now...but I live in coastal California...we don't need umbrellas much.
Holly @ 504 Main
Thanks for stopping by my blog, lucky for me I am not an umbrella person, but I may just have to get one just to take a pic of me poking someone for you! LOL!
Here from Following Friday!
You are cute when angry :)
I JUST FOUND YOU....A reality show junky huh? I love love love reality shows.
Hi!
Follin' ya from Follow Friday!
I'm following from Follow Friday. You can find me blogging here:
I feel you! I don't carry an umbrella myself for the same reasons you don't.
People can be such assholes.
Thanks for dropping by my blog and taking the time to leave a comment! :)
Umbrellas are just bothersome period. I'd sooner get wet than deal with the nuisance of an umbrella. I'm not made of sugar - I won't melt.
Thanks for stopping by my blog~