The latest beta of Windows 7 supposedly contains this scary little screen hinting at numerous packages of Microsoft's upcoming OS. There are fewer variations to confuse consumers than Windows Vista, let alone Rob's doomsaying parody... but come on, Microsoft. This is still four more flavors of Windows 7 than you should be selling. [via PC Beta via Engadget]
I think I saw something a while ago in an interview that Ballmer pretty much confirmed that they were keeping the “31 Flavors” release model for Windows 7. Also, seeing the word “Ultimate” in the .iso filename of the beta pretty much hinted at this too.
Very unfortunate, being as how most of the confusion and frustration surrounding the release of Vista was caused by consumers misunderstanding the version requirements, buying the full featured Ultimate package only to find their hardware didn’t support it and automatically relegated them to a lesser version. Its one of the things MS should learn from Apple, God forbid.
ohhh, I want Starter. I mean, why not just put a “Don’t buy me if you want to do more then email” sticker on the front. It’s all such a silly scheme to make you want to buy a higher version.
I am sure they will be blaming the next round of layoffs on the economy too. It’s because your product doesn’t work!
Lordy lordy, one version should be it. I can’t believe they think this is a good idea.
Run away, run away. The Redmond memory blocker rays are temporarily down.
Bloggers are starting to remember how much every Windows version ever released has sucked until service packed with a few hundred megs of fixes and until Moore’s law makes it runnable on other than supercomputers.
You know, I’m fine with having the starter (for developing countries, super low end computers etc, not for general purchase), home (media centery stuff), business (networky stuff), Ultimate (media + networky). It’s a bit excessive, but it isn’t that confusing, and might reduce some bloat of features/programs I don’t want and will not use. What confuses me is the whole home basic/home premium thing.
Just buy ultimate you whiners. See, was that hard?
“buying the full featured Ultimate package only to find their hardware didn’t support it and automatically relegated them to a lesser version”
I don’t know what this means. If their hardware didn’t support Aero they’d be “relegated” under a one size fits all scheme as well.
Apple makes most of their money selling the dongle for their OS; their scenario is different. (FWIW I use a mac laptop and a windows desktop.)
well it is called “Windows 7: *Ultimate*”. That “Ultimate” alone led me to believe this a long time ago.
i’d be ok with two versions. home and business. having 4 different possibilities for my home desktop is just rude.
I’m at work and can’t check, so hopefully this is the actual video:
and thus the decision to remain with xp and/or linux has been made…
Simple marketing:
Product differentiation = customer pays according to means for ‘different’ product = more $$$ for M$