photos: PistonHeads
I’m rewatching The Grand Tour season 1 and 2 in preparation for the new season and am still fascinated by S2E7 “It’s a gas, gas, gas” which tells the story of Jezza’s Favorite Motorsports Battle- Audi vs. Lancia.
In that frame of mind, one tends to start looking for an Ur-Quattro to drool over and this one fell into my lap. Featured on PistonHeads, this is a former John Buffum, Hannu Mikola, Robert McBurney, David Sutton Motorsport Audi Rally Team Quattro. The price? Only £100,000! That may sound like a lot but look at its history and it becomes a relative bargain.
a
Here’s the ad:
–
One of the most influential designs of recent decades and an outstandingly successful rally car, the Audi Quattro brought four-wheel drive into the motoring mainstream. Introduced in 1980, the Quattro was based on the outwardly similar Coupé’s bodyshell but used a different floor pan to accommodate its four-wheel-drive transmission and independent rear suspension. The engine was a development of the five-cylinder, 2.1-litre, single-overhead-camshaft unit first seen in the 200 saloon. Equipped with a KKK turbocharger, it produced 200bhp in road trim with considerably more being available in competition tune.
Phenomenally fast and sure-footed on the road, the Quattro excelled in international rallying, winning the Manufacturers’ Championship for Audi in 1982 and 1984 and the Drivers’ Championship in 1983 and 1984, but its enduring legacy would be the demonstration of four-wheel drive’s advantages for passenger cars. Since then Audi has gone on to apply its Quattro 4WD system to many other models but only the original (or ‘Ur’) version is spelled with a capital ‘Q’.
This particular car is one of the first Audi Quattros brought into Great Britain by Volkswagen/Audi Group (UK). First registered in September 1981, it was used as an official press and demonstrator car by VAG before being assigned to David Sutton Motorsport’s official Audi Rally Team in 1982.
During its life as a press car, ‘BR ‘BRP 223X’ between Monte Carlo Rally stages.
In 1982, David Sutton converted ‘BRP 223X’ to full rally specification primarily for use as the Audi Sport UK practice and reconnaissance car. The comprehensive conversion included the addition of a Terry Hoyle-built ‘blue block’ engine and a fully instrumented rally interior, etc. While the German-built rally Quattros used Matter roll cages, a Safety Devices full roll cage was built into ‘BR, ‘Audi Quattro the Development and Competition History’, shows ‘BRP 223X’ being prepared in David Sutton’s workshop alongside Stig Blomqvist’s Quattro and the Audi Sport UK 80 quattro.
‘BR the ‘Beaujolais Run – A Race for Wine’ with Radio 1, and became part of a private collection of Works rally cars in Northern Ireland. ‘BRP 223X’ is featured in Graham Robson’s book ‘Audi Quattro’. It also features in the DVD ‘The World’s Greatest Rally Cars’ presented by Tony Mason and produced by Duke Video in 2000 (copy on file). The previous owner purchased the car at Brooks’ Earls Court Sale in October 1995 (Lot 878).
‘BRFest as part of the 2016 WRC Wales Rally GB. The car has just undergone a lot of work to return it to the same specification and livery as when it competed in the 1983 Rothmans Circuit of Ireland Rally, in addition to having a full engine refresh by Dialynx.
An original survivor from one of international rallying’s most evocative periods, this ‘turnkey’ Quattro is offered with a V5C registration document, its MSA Competition Car Logbook, and a substantial history file containing period photographs and documents.
If you fancy owning a Quattro with a fascinating history, here’s your chance. Find it for sale on PistonHeads.