Art Exhibit
Shine, a solo multi-media exhibition by Vera McEvoy, runs from January 16 to Feburary 13 at the Arthouse in Stradbally. Opening preview Thursday 16 at 1.30pm. Opening hours: Tuesday - Friday 10am-4pm or by appointment. Contact Muireann Ni Chonaill on 057/664109 8664033.
STRADBALLY SENIOR CITIZENS CHRISTMAS DINNER
Annual Christmas dinner for senior citizens will take place in the Seven Oaks Hotel, Carlow on Sunday January 26 at 1pm. Bus will leave Social Services Centre at 12pm. Anyone attending or who require transport should ring 8625161, or 8625149. All senior citizens from Stradbally, Vicarstown and Timahoe areas are welcome.
NEIGHBOURHOOD WATCH
The AGM OF Stradbally Neighbourhood Watch will be held on Monday, January 27 in St Mary’s Hall at 7.30pm. The meeting is your chance to get up to date information. We thank in advance all the local business and organisations who support our network of CCTV in and around the town and we intend again this year to expand the number and location of cameras around the community. This is also the night for you to raise any issue you have. The meeting will end at 8.30pm.
WHIST DRIVE
The next whist drive will be held in St Patrick’s Hall, Stradbally on Friday, January 19 at 8pm.
TABLE QUIZ
A table quiz will be held in St Patrick’s Hall, Stradbally on Friday, January 31 at 8.30pm. Lone contestants will be welcome and will be put in as part of a table of four.
MAN UTD & LIVERPOOL LEGENDS DAY
We are delighted to announce Liverpool and Man Utd legends John Aldridge and David May will be coming to Napper Tandys Function Room, Stradbally for the eagerly anticipated Man Utd vs Liverpool game on the Bank holiday weekend March 15/16, TBC. The game will be shown on the huge big screen in the function room and both legends will be offering pre-match, half-time and post match analysis. A number of VIP tickets will also be available which will include a sit down pre-match meal with both legends with photo and shirt signing opportunities. There will also be live music. Tickets are €15 per person, family tickets €50 and VIP tickets €35. Tickets can be booked through Napper Tandys and will also be available from all members of Stradbally Town Soccer Club.
ADRIAN (JACKPOT) LEWIS
A darts exhibition featuring the two times world champion dart player, Adrian ‘jackpot’ Lewis will be in The Napper Tandy, Stradbally on Saturday, March 29 from 7pm. Tickets or admission €10. Sponsorship cards available if you wish to throw ‘the jackpot’.
ANGLERS MEETING
A meeting of the Stradbally Anglers Association will be held in St Mary’s Hall, on Monday, January 27 commencing at 8pm.
HEYWOOD COMMUNITY SCHOOL
Enrolment night on Thursday January 23 at 7pm for prospective 1st Year students and their parents.
CONFIRMATION 2014
Please note next preparatiion is on Tuesday, January 21 in St Colmans School at 7.30pm. Faith Buddies January 27.
PARISH COUNCIL MEETING
A meeting of the parish council will be held in the Parish House at 8pm.
COMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT
Stradbally, Timahoe and Vicarstown parish Community Employment are presently applying for a new scheme to begin July 2014. All voluntary committees and groups who have work for that scheme can undertake, please contact Liam Kelly or the committee Fr Sean Kelly, chairperson, Dominic Hartnett, secretary and Padraig Ashe, treasurer.
TIMAHOE COMMUNITY HALL
Meeting will be on Wednesday, January 15 at 8.30pm.
Almost Done!
By registering you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the website.