If investors needed to be reminded how important monetary policy is for sharemarkets, then Thursday’s unexpectedly strong employment report was timely.
Shares fell more than 1 per cent and holders of Australian bonds were also blindsided by the highest number of jobs created since November, 2002 as both markets reacted to the idea the official cash rate might not be going any lower.
Indeed, following the massive surge in jobs – total employment rose 71,500 in February, compared with the average forecast of closer to 10,000 – the interest rate market has nearly unwound any sort of rate cut altogether.
The implied cash rate is now 2.90 per cent by November this year when at the start of the year a fall to 2.5 per cent by the end of the year was tipped.
As a result, bond prices sank and yields soared across the spectrum of short and long-dated maturities as bonds extended their recent sell-off that this week pushed the yield on the benchmark three-year bond above the Reserve Bank of Australia’s overnight cash rate, now at 3 per cent, for the first time since July 2011.
But before everyone heads to their mortgage provider to lock in their fixed rate home loan rate, some economists were questioning if the numbers were just too good to be true.
The monthly numbers can always be volatile but should be treated with some suspicion when the swings are that large.
As BT’s Chris Caton points out, about 65 per cent of the jobs created came from part-time males but they make up around 9 per cent of total employment.
“It’s good news; just not as good as it appears at first glance,’’ Caton says.
But the bond market bears won out on Thursday and they are in the all-news-is-good-news phase that leads to higher yields.
Yields, after all, have been rising for the past couple of months, on the back of good economic data – domestic and offshore.
And equity investors don’t seem to be too worried.
Mos appear to be thinking that the rally needed to slow down and some consolidation was overdue.
But in the back of their minds must be the possibility of a more severe sell-off.
According to Goldman Sachs, over the past 12 years the months of March and April have been the trigger point for a correction on Wall Street about 50 per cent of the time.
In 2011 and 2012, stocks peaked in April and March respectively and March also sparked a sell-off in 2000, 2002, 2004 and 2005 the broker told clients in a note.
The major bank stocks are most at risk here as they carry the most leverage.
They’ve had a great run but life gets tougher if yields start to rise and stay higher.
If investors continue to get better than expected economic data here and in the United States, then bond yields will keep rising.
And shares, having gained around 30 per cent in nine months, will also start to be a cause for worry about the impact of higher interest rates.
Morgan Stanley’s equity strategist Gerard Minack thinks that central banks have won the battle of sustaining recoveries in the major developed economies by keeping monetary policy but worries they might not win the war.
“Winning the battle isn’t winning the war. If central bankers do win this round, the next downturn could be, in my view, an omnishambles," he has told clients.
He worries that, as a result of ultra low interest rates, there has now been a rise in leverage.
That is happening in the US, he says, with aggregate non-financial debt to GDP rising in the December quarter, the first increase in four years.
Another worrying sign for him is the record low yields on junk bonds that implies investors are mispricing risk.
Minack thinks the most important test now for investors is the “ability of the US to cope with fiscal tightening".
The Australian Financial Review