"Tum Bin" fame actor Priyanshu Chatterjee, recently seen in "Samrat &."
He seems like such a nice person. Liked him a lot in Tum Bin. Wish him all the best for future!
I can't describe how much I love you Priyanshu Chatterjee. You won my heart in Tum Bin
, I have been stalking you since a long time now. You left the industry so soon after Julie. I know what the Julie production did was extremely wrong but you have to come back as the hero for your fans. Lots and lots of love xxx
Edited on:01 May 2014 at 7:29am
Tum Bin is my one of my all time fav movie...All the best to Priyanshu Chtatterjee
LOVE U PRIYANSHU CHAATERJEE :D
I hope to see him in a tv show playing the male lead. Nowadays many Bollywood actors come to the tv industry! Honestly said Bollywood wants now stars with a filmy background or u must have a BIG luck to be successful. Its better for him to make his way for tv shows! Here he will get much more love and appreciations from house to house! I wish him all the best for his future.
Luck plays a big role in everyone's life! So does Destiny! He is a decent actor with Good Looks but as he is no longer young enough for the fresh hero role..he may have to work harder! But I agree why not try television?
Edited on:09 May 2015 at 12:53pm
Tum Bin is a wonderful movie, which I can watch a hundred times... All the best to Priyanshu Chtatterjee for his ventures...
"tum Bin" is my all time favorite love story
i dont even know how many times i have watched that movie.
But it was ur acting and charm that totally made me fall in love with it
i would also like to see u do a Film like tum bin which shows ur true potential
love u Priyanshu!!!!!!!
Ur Tum Bin was the best n my all time favourite movie! !!!!!!
You r so talented actor!!!!!!!
all d best!!!!!
Megastar Amitabh Bachchan, whose film "Sooryavansham" has completed 16 ...
1
The trailer of National Award-winning filmmaker Vinod Kapri's upcoming ...
Views : 3183
Views : 2581
Posted on: 22 June 2014 at 11:55pmindigodevi
All the best Priaynshu Chatterjee for your new ventures..
Report Abuse