Nevada
Sponsored By
Minneapolis Reverend 1 Of 4 Candidates For Nevada Episcopal BishopFour church leaders from Virginia, Arizona, California, and Minnesota have been nominated to serve as the new bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Nevada.
Minnesota Man Moving His RV In Nevada Killed When Run Over After Falling OutA man trying to move his motor home was killed when he was run over by the slowly moving vehicle after he fell out and was knocked unconscious, police in Nevada said.
Man Wanted In Las Vegas Homicide Arrested At Southern Minnesota Truck StopA man wanted in connection to a homicide in Las Vegas last month was arrested Wednesday night in southern Minnesota.
Amy Klobuchar Launches Spanish-Language Ads In NevadaNevada’s Democratic Party says more than 26,000 people cast votes during the first two days of early voting in the state's presidential caucuses.
Democratic Hopefuls Rush Toward Nevada Lacking Obvious FrontrunnerCandidates in the still-crowded field are jumping into their first test in a racially diverse state with solid union muscle and shaky plans for a presidential caucus.
With Eye Toward Caucus, Sen. Amy Klobuchar Takes Campaign To Nevada“I am aware that I am not as well known as some of the other candidates in this race, especially in this state," she told reporters. “I need to get out there. That’s what we’re doing today.”
'You Could Feel The Crowd Tense Up': Las Vegas Survivor Remembers ShootingsIt was the deadliest mass shooting incident committed by one person in modern U.S. history.
Escaped Minnesota Inmate Caught In Nevada After 25 YearsA man who escaped from a Minnesota federal prison in 1992 and had been on the run ever since was taken back into custody last month after trying to renew his driver's license.
Trump Secures Third Victory With Nevada Win, Rubio-Cruz In Race For 2ndWith a big win in Nevada, Donald Trump claimed a third straight commanding victory in the race for the Republican presidential nomination..
Family-Friendly Guide To Las VegasRecommendations on affordable lodging, dining and attractions in Las Vegas for the entire family.
_13<<
Talking Points: Author Says Only 10 States Matter In A Presidential Race It may seem a little early, but this past week has seen an awful lot of activity in presidential politics.
Minn. Man Facing Sentencing In Nev. Abduction Case A 34-year-old Minnesota man could get probation or prison time in Nevada after pleading guilty to felony coercion for keeping his ex-girlfriend against her will at a motel in the resort city of Mesquite.