This week's topic for December 17th is:
Books I Read: The Knife of Never Letting Go, The Ask and the Answer, A Monster Calls
Patrick Ness is probably one of my new favorite authors for his way with words that just hits you directly in the gut every time. His books evoke such strong emotions from me that I literally have to put down the book just to compose myself. He's just that good. I actually haven't read the last book in the Chaos Walking trilogy because I'm so afraid of how it might end. More Than This is currently on my TBR shelf and I can't wait for the release of The Crane Wife.
Books I Read: Fangirl, Eleanor & Park
I was actually hesitant to start Fangirl, but oh my goodness, it was such a cute book! There were definitely some parts that I could embarrassingly relate to from my college experience which only endeared me to Cath and her struggles.
Books I Read: Cinder, Scarlet
Even though Cinder came out early 2012, I only managed to get to it this year. I remember my first thought that I had after finishing it was why didn't I read this book earlier? I already mentioned it before, but I can't wait for Cress.
Books I Read: Across the Universe, A Million Suns, Shades of Earth
These books were actually recommended to me by a very close friend, and she has never strayed me wrong before. Beth Revis' writing to me has a similar effect as Patrick Ness': it makes me want to throw my book across the room from all the feels. I promise no books were harmed in my reading though.
Books I Read: Every Day, The Lover's Dictionary
While Every Day was cute, it wasn't really my cup of tea. On the other hand, The Lover's Dictionary was a cute, quick and easy read that I really enjoyed. Also, Goodreads says there's going to be a sequel to Every Day. Whaaaat?
Books I Read: Sharp Objects
I've seen a lot of hype about Gone Girl but I still haven't finished that book, and I didn't really like what I read so far. However, I did enjoy Sharp Objects, and it makes me think I really should finish Gone Girl.
Books I Read: Oryx and Crake, The Year of the Flood
Margaret Atwood is one of those authors that I feel I should have read more books from. She seems to be a favorite author of a lot of people I know. I started her MaddAddam trilogy this year, which I enjoyed, but I really should get on The Handmaid's Tale soon.
Books I Read: The Madman's Daughter
The only one on this list who actually debuted as an author in 2013. I had a few issues with The Madman's Daughter but I'm still curious to know how things end up for Juliet in the next book.
Books I Read: The Scorpio Races
The Scorpio Races actually came out two years ago, but I didn't hear about it until this year. I picked it up randomly and - well, it was smooth sailing from there. (Actually, I lied. I didn't pick it up randomly. I'm a Scorpio, the book is set in November, I'm sure it was meant to happen.)
Books I Read: Lizard, Kitchen
Unlike #9, Banana Yoshimoto's Lizard was truly a random impulse buy I made at a secondhand bookstore my friends and I stopped by after getting some Indian food for dinner. Honestly, I couldn't pass by a book by someone named Banana. Coincidentally enough, it turns out a friend of mine is also a fan of Yoshimoto.
I'm the same with Marissa Meyer & Cinder - I only read it this year and I can't believe I didn't read it sooner! It was amazing.
I really need to check out Gillian Flynn. I have found myself picking up her books in the store so many times, but always saying "Maybe next time…" I am guessing based on your little blurb you would recumbent I start with 'Sharp Objects?'
Beth Revis is one of my Favs... loved that series. You will probably like These Broken Stars by Amie Kaufman and Meagan Spooner
I'm seeing a lot of Rainbow on everyone's list. Am I the only one who hasn't read her books yet? Maybe I should change that asap!
Our TTT
Doris @ OABR
I think releasing a book about Fangirl really worked in Rowell's favor! That's certainly how she got my attention. If you like contemporary YA, you should definitely give it a shot.
Across the Universe was so great, and I've heard a lot of good hype about These Broken Stars. I definitely need to read that one of these days.
For me, the general description of Sharp Objects just interested me more than Gone Girl, so it really depends on which plot speaks to you the most, both of which are pretty messed up. I do think that Sharp Objects is probably a bit "easier" to get into than Gone Girl since Gone Girl is told through dual perspectives while Sharp Objects is just one perspective.
It really was amazing, even more so that the first three books were written for NaNoWriMo!
Great list. A few of these are authors that I am still dying to read. I'm especially excited to read Rainbow Rowell's, Marissa Meyer's and Megan Shepherd's books; they all look amazing. I LOVED the Chaos Walking trilogy, from beginning to end! New Bloglovin and GFC follower :) My TTT.