CNET.com.au's editors haven't yet reviewed the TDK iSlim. Please add your opinion about the TDK iSlim below.
More TDK reviews , RRP: AU$149.00
Utilising NXT speaker technology, the iSlim is an ultra-thin flat panel speaker system with an iPod dock, FM radio, alarm clock and remote.
CNET.com.au's editors haven't yet reviewed the TDK iSlim. Please add your opinion about the TDK iSlim below.
Join CNET.com.au Free newsletters, post to forums and win prizes. Join now - it's free and easy!
As its name suggests the iCubic is a pearl-white, cube-shaped speaker with a built-in iPod dock, FM radio and alarm clock.
Gear4's ProControl gives you a simple way to connect your iPod to your home stereo, computer and charge it all at the same time. It's hardly a unique product, just one that does its job well.
Recent price drops have meant the Monitor Audio i-Deck is one of the best-sounding and most attractive iPod speaker systems for the money.
If you want to hear music from all angles in a large room, the aptly named OmniVibe is an iPod speaker system worth looking into.
What's next for Apple? We think it's the remote
Two hot robots from CES 2008
Creative Xdock goes high-def
Tonium Pacemaker soon to be released into the wild
Xbox, iPod dock and home automation in one box
Attack of the two-headed iPod speaker
U2 previews unreleased track on Facebook, snubs MySpace?
Easy iPhone and iPod Touch jailbreak released
B&W has made a grand, sweeping entrance into the lucrative iPod accessory market with the lush but pricey Zeppelin.
The Belkin TuneStudio is an excellent four-track recorder which is best when used with a Mac or PC. It includes pro-level features such as a compressor and phantom power.
Creative GigaWorks HD50 speakers
A decent, good-looking choice for occasional use, but the HD50s don't do justice to DVDs and bass-heavy music.
For those who are looking for an easy way to transfer video to your iPod or PlayStation Portable, look no further as the Pinnacle Video Transfer makes this process a breeze.
Belkin TuneCast Auto with ClearScan
The TuneCast Auto is easy to use and produces clear sound. Just watch you don't run anyone over while scanning for decent frequencies.
iPod classic or Creative Zen Vision W
Posted in Forums > MP3 Players
By bobo45
Ipod Touch Syncing Errors?
Posted in Forums > MP3 Players
By bobo45
Create a personalised homepage
Choose your interests from our 16 categories and only see articles relevant to you. Sign up for a free CNET.com.au membership now!
Copyright © 2008 CNET Networks, Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use
bruce
02/04/2008, 01:06 PM
rating
3/10
rather impressed with the item however the fact that the alarm volume is uncontrolable, is extremely annoying since this was the major reason for purchasing this product.
Pros: looks good and has a decent speaker for a clock radio
Cons: the alarm volume
Report offensive comment
mzappulla
30/03/2008, 11:50 AM
rating
4/10
Got this as a gift, as I took it out of the box it did look promising but then I turned it on and had a good look at it.
Pros: - Easy to use
- Looks good
- Ipod sits well and charges
- Nice remote
Cons: - No Head Phone Jack!
- No AM band
- Speaker quality poor
Report offensive comment
Vader51
10/02/2008, 12:05 AM
rating
2/10....
Pros: Great sound for quiet listening and looks cool. Strong remote.
Cons:.
Report offensive comment
billjw
09/02/2008, 02:12 PM
rating
9/10
This is exactly what I was looking for. Slim, reasonable sound (it's a clock radio not a sound system) and it takes all iPod versions hat I know of.
Pros: Takes most (all?) iPods
Good sound
Simple to use
Remote control
Cons: Bright display
Report offensive comment
islimbright
23/01/2008, 09:10 PM
rating
2/10
The back light is too bright. It lights up the room at night and can't be dimmed.
Pros: Tidy little unit
Cons: Bright back light. Impossible to sleep with.
Report offensive comment
Steevo2
09/10/2007, 03:44 PM
rating
6/10)
Report offensive comment
Steevo2
09/10/2007, 03:31 PM
rating
5/10
I've been searching for a nice 'clock-radio' which incorporates iPod docking. The TDK looked the goods but for one major flaw. When the radio turns on (in alarm mode) the volume level ramps up (nice feature) BUT you cannot set how loud it gets! It just keeps getting louder and louder. No amount of pressing the volume control (or any other buttons for that matter) will stop it getting too loud. The only way to stop it is to turn it off! Mightily inconvenient if you just want the radio to turn on at a nice moderate level so you can listen to the morning news ..
Pros: - nice styling.
-'inverse' backlit LCD display (doesn't light up the room like most 'normal' LCDs)
- good FM reception.
- dual alarms.
- iPod menu navigation possible from remote control.
Cons: - non adjustable radio alarm volume!!
- below average sound from NXT speakers.
- no audio 'line out'.
- non dimmable display.
Report offensive comment