This is the 405th issue of Bike Bits, Adventure Cycling's twice-monthly bicycle bulletin. Bike Bits is delivered to you, and 63,928 other readers, because you've signed up for it at the Adventure Cycling Association website. We want to inspire you to dream and to live your own bicycle adventures.
“My legs and a silly something in me cry out for knocking the milestones down one by one and stopping for nothing. For years I have been telling myself that it’s not the miles in the life that count but the life in the miles, but still this silly restlessness hurries me on.”
Harold Elvin,The Ride to Chandigarh
Pack It Up, Pack It In, Let Us Begin
In 2015 and 2016, Packing It Out cleaned up the Appalachian Trail and the Pacific Crest Trail, all on foot. This year, they’re using our favorite tool — the bicycle — to collect and dispose of trash they find on roads and trails during a 5,025-mile bike tour across the U.S. Read more
Talk About Well Traveled
The Hugenses, who have already ridden a bajillion miles through dozens of countries, are cycling ’round the world — again. Read more
Register for Bike Travel Weekend by May 22
Join thousands of others throughout the world for a one- or two-night bike overnight during Bike Travel Weekend, June 2–4. Ride with your family or friends and stay at your favorite overnight location, whether it’s a nearby campground, hotel, cabin, B&B, hostel, or friend’s house. Ride solo or with a group and go one mile or 100 miles — it’s your trip! Register by May 22 for a chance to win an Advocate Cycles bikepacking bike or an Amtrak trip to Glacier National Park for two, with bikes. Read more
Camping Swiftly
Join the Swift Campout for a weekend of bike travel June 24 and 25. If only every weekend could be set aside for bike travel. Read more
The International Bicycle Route Race Is Just Beginning
Currently, Europe’s EuroVelo leads the pack with 27,962 miles of signed bike routes. In the U.S. we’ve designated over 11,000 miles of the United States Bicycle Route System (USBRS) thanks to generous donors like you. But we won’t stop until we have over 50,000 miles! Donate today and your contribution will be tripled thanks to Osprey Packs and a group of enthusiastic USBRS supporters. Did we mention you could also win an Advocate bicycle to ride those 50,000 miles? Read more
We Can’t Draw, But We Can Make a Mean Coffee Stain
Artist Carter Asmann, however, can draw. Bicycles, motorcycles, racecars, Jack Nicholson — who knew that coffee rings could be so versatile? Read more
Look Who’s Cycling Now
Maya and Gili are experienced touring cyclists who have been traveling with their son, Neil, since he was seven months old. Now they have an online mini-guide for parents who are curious about cycle touring with their little ones. Read more
The Pedaler’s Pilgrimage
In July, a group of cyclists will ride from London, England, to Medina, Saudi Arabia, where they will join about two million fellow Muslims for the pilgrimage to Mecca. Read more
Dobrodošli!
Cycle the Ciro Trail, a new 100-mile rail trail in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Read more
Until next time, click here for vicarious adventures in Portugal.