
Washington ES reopening celebration: New school meets old schoolExplore the newly remodeled Washington Elementary School and listen to alumni and staff talk about the historic school’s reinvention. We toured the school and interviewed visitors after the Oct. 10 reopening celebration. Watch video.
We Day Tacoma 2014 Thousands of seventh-graders from Tacoma Public Schools participated in We Day Tacoma 2014, held Thursday, Oct. 2 at Life Center. Thanks to Stadium High photo students Neil Bhatia, Hannah Eklund, Jacinda Garber and Emma Joy Miller for creating the images in our photo gallery. View photo gallery.
Being included means everythingLincoln High student Zach Jenkins discusses his transition into high school and out of special education pull-out classes. His insights reveal our common need to be understood and accepted. Watch video.
Learning never stopsSummer programs are an integral part of our efforts to improve academic outcomes for all students. In response to our commitment to boost learning, Tacoma Public Schools and community partners offered a broader range of programs this summer to help lessen learning losses. View photo gallery.
Jason Lee MS: Beating the “summer slide”A unique partnership with Tacoma Public Schools and Peace Community Center is helping Jason Lee Middle School students beat the “summer slide”. The fitness-based summer school program helps students grow academically, make important social connections and discover the connection between a healthy body and a healthy mind. Watch video.
Refusing to be a dropout statisticListen to four graduates from Oakland High School who had the odds stacked heavily against them but found the grit to make it to the finish line. Watch video.
Wilson, Mount Tahoma teams compete in Unified Soccer tournamentCongratulations are in order for the Unified Soccer teams from both Wilson and Mount Tahoma high schools for their achievements in the recently completed state competition as part of the annual Special Olympics Summer Games and the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) state soccer championships. View photo gallery.
Mount Tahoma College Signing Day June 2Mount Tahoma High School celebrated and recognized those seniors who will attend a college or university or enter the military for their 13th year. All Mount Tahoma seniors were invited to join in and recognize their peers who have an education plan for after graduation. View photo gallery.
Sherman celebrates Arts Education MonthMay is Arts Education Month, and Sherman Elementary
School celebrated with an Art and Literacy Night May 15 where families could
try out art activities with seven area artists and view student work created through
the school’s Artist in Residence program. Student-designed books showcased the
artistic talents of the students and celebrated literacy and reading. View photo gallery.
Partnership creates extended-day learning programPeace Community Center won a five-year, 21st Century Community Learning Center grant to provide academic enrichment opportunities for students at r Elementary School in Tacoma's Hilltop neighborhood. Peace Community Center is bringing together local non-profit organizations to deliver a mix of academic and enrichment activities for students attending after-school programs at r. We believe strong partnerships with organizations dedicated to empowering students will improve student outcomes and build better communities. View photo gallery.A road trip along the career pathFor Lincoln High School shop teacher Fred Hall, getting students on a career or college path is his most important task. Hall and 22 Career and Technical Education (CTE) students from Lincoln embarked on a one-day whirlwind tour of what might lie ahead after graduation. Their eastern Washington trip included site visits to Central Washington University’s Construction Management and Technology Education classes, The International Union of Operating Engineers Regional Training Facility, and Wild Horse Wind and Solar Facility. View photo gallery.Reengaging students: A new school opens its doorsTacoma Public Schools recently opened the doors to its newest school, the Reengagement Center. The center provides a unique, personalized educational experience, which helps students reengage and rediscover their educational path to graduation. View photo gallery.Three Graduates, Three Mentors. Foss High School stories.Our students don't always have easy lives. Sometimes, focusing on school seems like a luxury. Hear three students describe how nurturing mentors helped them navigate life's challenges... and get to the finish line. View video.
Tacoma Public Schools
Central Administration Building
P.O. Box 1357 Tacoma WA 98401-1357
253-571-1000 | info@tacoma.k12.wa.us