Privacy Statement
This statement was last updated on October 10, 2008.
1. ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS
The foregoing privacy policy relates to the Jen and Barb: Real Moms tm web site (the “Site”). The Site, and most of the materials on the Site, are owned, operated and/or controlled by Broadband Enterprises, Inc. (“BBE”). This Privacy Statement sets forth our current privacy practices with regard to the information we collect when you or your computer interacts with the Site. By accessing the Site, you acknowledge and fully understand BBE’s Privacy Statement and freely consent to the information collection and use practices described in this Site Privacy Statement.
2. INFORMATION WE COLLECT AND HOW WE USE IT
BBE collects certain information from and about its users on the Site three ways: directly from Web Server logs, with Cookies and from users of the Site.
a. Web Server Logs.
When you visit the will also use this information to provide services and information that you request, to provide new services on our Site, measure global (not individual) activity, expand certain Site services, to contact you regarding this Site, to monitor or improve the Site and to monitor compliance with our Terms of Use. We may also utilize information to customize the advertising and marketing messages that are delivered to users on the Site and for other reasons to be determined in our discretion. We do not provide or release names, e-mail addresses or postal addresses to any third party. However you need to be aware that certain state and federal laws may require that we report on any individual users activities on the Site.
b. Use of Cookies
BBE reserves the right to share aggregated site statistics with partner companies, but will not allow other companies to place cookies on the Site unless we believe the Site can register as a member. When you register, we will request some personal information such as name, address, email, telephone number or facsimile number, account number and other relevant information. If you are purchasing a service or a product from the Site, services and products.
• To protect ourselves from liability,
• To respond to legal process or comply with law, or
• In connection with a merger, acquisition, or liquidation of the company.
• For other uses that we disclose when you provide your personal information to us.
4. USE OF WEB BEACONS OR GIF FILES
The Site’s Web pages may contain electronic images known as Web beacons – sometimes also called single-pixel gifs – that allow BBE to count users who have visited those pages and to deliver co-branded services. BBE@jenandbarb.com. Please note however that e-mail is not encrypted and is not considered to be a secure means of transmitting credit card and/or other types of personal information.
6. CHANGES TO THIS STATEMENT
BBE has the discretion to update this privacy statement at any time. When we do, we will also revise the “updated” date at the top of this Privacy page. We encourage you to periodically review this privacy statement to stay informed about how we are helping to protect the personal information we collect. Your continued use of the Site constitutes your agreement to this privacy statement and any updates.
7. CONTACTING US
If you have questions regarding our Privacy Statement, its implementation, failure to adhere to this Privacy Statement and/or our general practices, please contact us at support@jenandbarb.com or send your comments to:
Broadband Enterprises, Inc.
Attention: Privacy Statement Personnel
245 Fifth Avenue
21st Floor
New York, NY 10016
BBE will use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly respond and resolve any problem or question.
sitemap | privacy | legal | contact us | website: j3studio.net
© 2021 Jen and Barb, Mom Life