.
It was nearly 6 years ago that I first heard of Rila Monastery.
It was mentioned in one of my favorite books, “The Historian
,” which.
The highlights of visiting Rila Monastery definitely are the courtyard and the church itself.
The outside of the church is covered in colorful frescoes, which were painted in the mid-1800s by a handful of Bulgarian artists, with the most famous being the Zograf brothers. These frescoes are unlike most I’ve seen — they are vibrant and cheery, and totally eye-catching.
These are contrasted by the serene, relaxed atmosphere that envelops the whole place.
Despite the miserable bus ride to get there, visiting Rila was one of the highlights of Bulgaria for me. I had been looking forward to it for so long, and it didn’t disappoint.. When I say “basic,” I mean squat toilets and no running water. Conversely, you can probably find accommodation in the nearby town of Rila.
Just like the rest of Bulgaria, Rila Monastery isn’t a place many people outside of Eastern Europe visit. But I promise it’s a site well worth the effort.
——
Would YOU want to visit Rila Monastery?
*Note: I visited Rila Monastery as part of a complimentary 18-day “Explore Eastern Europe” tour with Intrepid Travel. But all opinions, as always, are entirely my own.
30 Comments
I’m dying to go to Eastern Europe and The Historian is almost 100% responsible for that! For now, I’ll live vicariously through you and your awesome pics.
Ooo, another Historian fan, yay! I visited almost every place mentioned in that book this summer. And it was awesome.
Beautiful beautiful artwork. Nicely photographed and described, Amanda!
fotoeins | Henry recently posted..La petite ville française de Akaroa
Thanks, Henry! I really, really loved this place!
Those colors are So brilliant. Your Eastern Europe journey has me intrigued.
Gaelyn recently posted..Crazy Jug Point North Rim Grand Canyon
I knew the church was going to be colorful, but I didn’t realize just HOW colorful it would be!
If you’re considering a trip to Eastern Europe, I highly, highly recommend it!
Maybe after the ITB Berlin.
Gaelyn recently posted..Views from the side mirror
Great photos. I’m a photo junkie, so that’s important to me. After seeing your photos I think it’s high time I changed my old digital camera to something more professional for blogging. What camera do you use?
Did you know that:
“Besides breaking the ‘political monopoly’ of Byzantium in Eastern Europe,
Bulgaria broke also the monopoly of Latin, Greek and Hebrew as the exclusive
‘holy languages’ of Christendom. Along with introducing Christianity as a
common religion shared with Byzantium and Rome, Knyaz Boris I the Baptist
ensured the approval by both the Pope and the Patriarch of Constantinople that
the Church language in Bulgaria would be the spoken language of the country.
In Western Europe the holy books became accessible to the common people
much later, with Martin Luther’s 1534 Bible in German, and the 1611 King
James Version of the Bible in English.”
Ele recently posted..Mushrooms in Lithuania (well, some of them)
Thanks for those fun facts, Ele!
I’m glad you liked the photos. Right now I’m shooting with an Olympus E-PM1, and love it.
Amazing photos. Not sure my travels will get me to Bulgaria one day, but this is definitely a gorgeous place!
A Montrealer Abroad recently posted..Montreal’s Plateau Mont-Royal Best Places, Approved by Locals
Well hopefully your travels DO take you there one day!
I’d never even heard of Rila Monastery before you started mentioning it in your travel posts and now it is DEFINITELY on my bucket list!
Awesome to hear!! I love introducing people to new places/sights!
Wow it’s just so beautiful!!!! Great shots!
Thanks, Andi! It’s a true example of amazing Orthodox construction!
What a wonderful place! But I think we’ll rent a car
You are the hero!
Victor Tribunsky recently posted..Le Pont du Gard Breathtaking, but That is Only Water Conduit!
Haha, I would definitely suggest renting a car, or bargaining with a cab driver. That bus was the worst!
This place is stunning! I’ve never heard of it before but it’s going on the list now.
Caroline Eubanks recently posted..Packing for a Trip to Europe
It’s a good thing to put on any list.
That place is so incredibly beautiful; some of the photos in this article would have been worthy candidates for your photo-of-the-week feature. I can’t imagine how long it took to paint those frescoes . . . And I also really like all the arches.
H-Bomb recently posted..One small step for an H-Bomb: my visit to a space shuttle
Oh, one or two of these may eventually end up in that coveted photo of the week spot!
But yes, the frescoes and arches are all very pretty – and very photogenic!
Wow, A! What a beautiful place. Adding this to my list if I ever get to Bulgaria.
Kieu recently posted..Takayama Cuisine: mMm.. Miso Hungry!
Definitely add it to that list! It’s not a place most people can say they’ve been. But yes, it is beautiful.
God, I love Orthodox architecture.
ehalvey recently posted..Spires in Copenhagen (Photos)
Don’t you, though?? It’s so darn pretty; the photos basically take themselves!
been there, a real gem of Bulgaria
very nice photos!!
Thanks! I agree that’s its a true gem in Bulgaria – and one that most people (outside of the region, at least) have never even heard of!