OK, so Iim at work, see? And Iim kinda thirsty, and itis just after lunch, so I go down to the little shop that sells drinks and stuff. Iim looking at Coke, Iim looking at Dr. Pepper, Iim looking at SoBe, and then I spy the new Pepsi bottles advertising the iTunes promotion.
I say to myself, "Iim not a big Pepsi drinker, but what the heck! Letis give it a go."
So I select the bottle that I am sure has the 1 chance in 3 of having an iTunes code in the cap, and pay the nice lady behind the counter.
Iim sitting there, and I twist off the cap and take a pull from the bottle. Only then do I re-realize that I have gotten a Pepsi. (Like I said, Iit know if Iim the first person to get an iTunes song from the Pepsi promotion, but Iim definitely one of the first few thousand. It could be that Pepsi jumped the distribution gun on this one. I havenit tried to cash in my free tune, I will try tonight and let you all know whatis up.
Itit really start until February 1, so maybe iTunes wonim up, see? Itis like 2 AM on Feb. 1, and I was kicking back after a hard day of helping a friend move furniture.
I sat down in front of my Cube and Iim cruising around, and I took a pull from my beer, and I was just chillini.
Out of the corner of my eye I saw something yellow sitting among the junk on my desk (my desk is unbelievably messy. I threaten to clean it daily; empty threats.). Itis the Pepsi bottle cap that has the iTune-code inside. I figured, "Hey, itis 2 AM on February 1. iTMS has got to redeem this liddle-boy now!"
So, I clicked up iTMS and, lo-n-behold, thereis a big, white clickable button on the iTMS home page that has a Pepsi symbol wearing headphones. Under this rockini-out icon are two big words, "Redeem Song." Kinda hard to miss, ya know?
I clicked on the button and I got a new screen which asked for your birthdate. I thought, "OH GAWD! Itis too early in the morning for a freakini test!"
It seems you must be 18 to redeem songs and this is how they check. Man, you can get carded even online.
So, I thought for a minute, checked my driveris license, then entered my birth date (I easily pass this test), and I got another screen that simply said, "Enter your 10-digit Pepsi code* exactly as it appears:". I thought, "Hey, I can handle this."
I entered my code and pressed the iSubmiti button. The screen changed slightly; below the place where I entered the code some words in red appeared, they said, "The code you entered is not recognized as a valid Pepsi code."
Whai? iLi instead of a capital iIi..."
So, I changed the iIi to and iLi, and hit the submit button again.
Success!
The head-phone clad Pepsi icon reappeared. Under it where these words,
"You have successfully entered your code.
Your account has been credited with 1 song.
You must use this credit by April 30, 2004.
Then thereis this big arrow pointing up to the upper right corner of the windows where, lo-n-behold, it says I have 1 song!
Absolutely sweet!
Now, what song to pick?
Log in to comment (TMO, Twitter or Facebook) or Register for a TMO account