Posts Tagged ‘strategy’
Rich. Read the rest of this entry »
The Definition of the Alternatives is the Supreme Instrument of Power
The definition of the alternatives is the supreme instrument of power; the antagonist can rarely agree on what the issues are because power is involved in the definition. He who determines what politics is runs the country, because the definition of alternatives is the choice of conflicts, and the choice of conflicts allocates power.
E.E. Schattschnieider, The Semisovereign People: A Realist View of Democracy (emphasis in the original).
The.”
Read the rest of this entry »
Rob Portman, Strategy, and Politics of Character
[Update: via Dan Nexon, check out this post on this issue by David Meyer, Coming Out and Opinion Change.]
This week, conservative Senator Rob Portman announced his support for marriage equality. Portman reported that his experience with his own son was the catalyst for his change of position.
The moment of the Marriage Equality Act vote at the capitol building in Albany NY June 24, 2011. In the balcony of the chambers. photographed by the Celebration Chapel of Kingston NY.
.”.”
Read the rest of this entry »
Dirty Hippies, Inequality, and the Minnesota Model
The great Mark Price has a piece in the Guardian today, Wealth inequality will keep growing unless workers demand better, that gets to the heart of the problem with our broken economy’s failure to provide the security, opportunity, and basic needs we all deserve. Two points are worth mentioning. First, it’s taken as a matter of faith that conservative prescriptions for the economy are easy to understand and more left-leaning approaches are more complex. I think that’s rubbish. Read Mark here. It’s not difficult at all. If people don’t have jobs, they can’t spend, and we all suffer. If there are way more applicants then there are jobs, there’s no way out of this mess. Inequality is the problem, equality the solution. It’s not that hard. (I made the same point about Robert Reich before). He also discards the silly notion that government has been trying to fix this problem, or that the solutions are unclear. Read the rest of this entry »
An Inescapable Network of Mutual.
Martin Luther King, Letter from a Birmingham Jail (1963)
The Market Two-Step
with one comment
Share this:
Like this:
Written by David Kaib
August 15, 2013 at 9:29 pm
Posted in Submitted without comment
Tagged with Boundaries of the possible, Legitimation, market fundamentalism, neoliberalism, Philip Mirowski, Predator State, strategy