You have spoken, New Orleans. You want your basketball team to look, sound and feel more like a New Orleans basketball team.
You want a new nickname, a new logo, a new mascot and perhaps a new color scheme.
Amazingly, a town famous for fighting change at every turn is nearly universally behind this one. A Nola.com poll asked whether new owner Tom Benson should change the Hornets’ name, and more than 86 percent of the 5,035 respondents said yes.
It’s far from a done deal. A full rebranding of the franchise will take time — and a lot of money. Industry experts estimate such change could cost as much as $10 million. We’re talking stadium signs, marketing and promotional material. Everything must be rebranded, and it’ll take a lot of jersey sales to make up for the added expense.
Under normal circumstances, the NBA requires a minimum of two years’ notice for a franchise to rebrand. The league’s merchandising and marketing arms need reasonable notice to redesign the uniforms. So even if Benson and his executives decide to do this, it likely won’t become a reality before 2014.
Benson’s management team would be wise to consider the rebranding job the New Jersey Nets unveiled Monday.
Whether you’re gaga over the spartan urban look or not, you can’t argue with the strategy behind it. The logo and color scheme are unique and culturally significant. The new brand identity honors the New York City subway signs of 1957, when Brooklyn last claimed a major league franchise. The black-and-white color scheme is an ode to the famous tile patterns in the subway stations.
The Hornets’ rebranding needs to be planned just as carefully because you only get one chance to do this — and it must be done right. The Cleveland Cavaliers and Washington Wizards both made knee-jerk changes in recent years and have since returned to their original color schemes.
It makes no sense to make a change unless it’s going to be something original and positive.
There’s been talk of changing the color scheme to the Saints’ black and gold combination. In my mind, that would be a mistake.
The Hornets need to be treated as a separate entity. They aren’t, as one executive said recently, “Saints Light.” They need their own distinctive look just as the Celtics, Patriots and Red Sox do in Boston.
Besides, the black-and-gold colors aren’t naturally New Orleans. They were picked by original Saints owner John Mecom Jr. to honor his father’s Texas oil business. And while there’s no denying the local appeal to the color scheme, it doesn’t scream New Orleans the way, say, purple, green and gold do.
I would rather see the team keep its Mardi Gras-themed NOLA uniforms instead of adopting a black-and-gold scheme. It might work in Pittsburgh, but when did we ever copy anything from the Steel City?
New Orleans is a city of diversity, pageantry and excessiveness. What it isn’t about is uniformity.
The name change is a much more lively discussion. Scores of new names have been suggested since Benson made known his intentions last month. Some industrious fans have even gone so far as to submit graphic designs of logos and uniform schemes.
So far, few have stuck out, and most aren’t any better than “the Hornets.” Many are too provincial or obscure to be viable, and some are just downright silly.
I love the double entendre of the New Orleans Bounce, but I seriously doubt Benson does, despite his history of boogieing.
Of the scores of candidates, only one name I’ve seen so far catches my eye. Dukes has gained some currency in local circles, and it’s starting to grow on me.
It’s one of the few names that meets all the criteria of any name change: class, uniqueness and cultural significance.
La Nouvelle-Orleans was named in 1718 for Philippe II, who was the Duke of Orleans and the Regent of France at the time.
Another duke, Alexis Romanov, the Grand Duke of Russia, is believed to be responsible for the Mardi Gras colors of purple, green and gold. During his visit to New Orleans in 1872, the men of Rex adopted the Romanov family colors of purple, green and gold, which represented justice, faith and power.
And most Carnival krewes feature dukes in their courts.
Moreover, like the Saints, no other professional club owns the Dukes nickname. The Albuquerque Dukes were a minor league baseball team from 1972 to 2000. Since 2003, they’ve been called the Isotopes.
So Dukes is there for the taking. I can already see the marketing possibilities for the Dunkin’ Dukes and the Dancin’ Duchesses cheerleaders.
New Orleans could do much worse than Dukes. Whether Tom Benson thinks so is the $10 million question.
••••••••
Jeff Duncan can be reached at jduncan@timespicayune.com or 504.826.3404.