Cordarone User Reviews
Cordarone - User Reviews
Cordarone User Reviews
Now you can gain knowledge and insight about a drug treatment with Patient Discussions.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Cordarone sorted by most helpful.
I had 10 or more side effects. Caused by blood pressure toodrop and I wold fall. I waked like a drunk from one side to the other. After a pace maker conditioned stayed same. After one month in rehab still on this drug. I QUIT the drug and went to another older drug and it has been 3 months and I am nearly back to my old self before this drug. As far as I am concerned it should be taken off market it has too many side effects and some life threatening.
I have sun sensitivity, 46% reduced lung function, hypothyroidism, thinning hair,blurred vision and still get some fibrillation. I am very unhappy with the terrible side effects. My health is much worse using it.
Related Reading: hypothyroidism
Terribel reaction to the sun so have had to stop taking it. However seems to have got rid of the fibrillations
I was on Amio for about a year when I went in for a lung test. The drug was working wonders and I hadn't had any episodes of VT in that time. However my lung test (PFT) showed that my lungs weren't working properly which was a side effect from this drug. I was deeply disappointed since I had already tried all the other anti-arrtyhmic drugs out on the market. I had to stop taking it immediately and 30 days later I had an episode of VT which caused my ICD to fire.
My mother passed away in January 2011 after many years of being on amiodarone.Death certificate stated she had interstitial pneumonitis and respiratory. As you may know this drug causes respiratory failure and I believe it contributed to her death as she was never diagnosed or had any respiratory problems. Pulmonary fibrosis doesn't just creep up on you. Does anyone have any patient information pages from Wyeth prior to 2005 indicating this warning. This is a drug that should be used as a last resort and if you are taking it you should be monitored and have pulmonary functions, thyroid, and liver among other body systems. Thanks, Lynne
Related Reading: Pulmonary fibrosis | liver
I was having a procedure called Atrial Ablation, when the doctor nickef my heart, had to be rushed to the OR for Surgery. In hospital for 5 days heart did not go back into normal sinus rythum, put me on this drug. 4 Years later still on drug, having problems with shortness of breath, coughing, wheezing, weight gain, stomack protrusion. Have had 4 Cat Scans in 4 years having another today to check for Amirohfdione Toxicty. Effecting my way of life even lost job. Been to four Pulmanologist they have sent me back to heart doctor. Also having Echo on Heart next week. Very frustrating.
Taking 400 mg to begin treatment for A-fib. After about 3 weeks, I have experienced new problems. Bruise very easily, strong blood in urine, baloated stomach, possible swelling of kidney, Thyroid factor of 1.1 (bottom normal is 4.5), trouble with balance when walking, poor sleep, lots of yawning, swelling of feet and shins. I had seemed to be doing good and all of a sudden all hell broke loose. Primary concern was blood in my urine, but can't at this time verify that this medication is the cause...but it is highly suspected by me. I'll call doc tomorrow to report my findings. I am told that taking Warfarin (Coumidin) along with this drug may have caused some of the problems. This was not an issue that was expressed in the literature. I won't be taking any more.... unless it can be proven to me that these problems as listed above are not associated with the "Amio". I hope I don't die tonight from internal bleeding in my kidneys. I will have to admit, that being a 'party' weekend, I did not slow down on booze. I don't drink usually, so this weekend was an exception that may have contributed to the blood in my urine..which is bad.
Related Reading: blood in urine | sleep | internal. and constant oxygen were the only thing keeping her alive. She spent weeks struggling to breath till she was so exhasted she lost hope. She passed away last friday. I discourage anyone from trying this killer drug. The side effects will kill you! It's not worth the chance.