The NAB Rewards Signature Visa earns 1.25 NAB Rewards point on all everyday spend, which can be converted to 0.625 Velocity Points, 0.41 Asia Miles/KrisFlyer Miles or 0.00625 Airpoints.
When looking at competing cards at similar fee levels these points earn rates are not compelling, however if you spend heavily in the bonus categories (major department and hardware stores) – where you’ll earn twice as many points – that could make the card more appealing.
You’ll also pick up triple points – so the equivalent of 1.87 Velocity points per dollar – on overseas spend, but with an applicable 3% foreign transaction fee. Signature Visa also offers a range of travel and purchase protection insurances, which are:
You’ll need to read the PDS yourself to assess its suitability for you.
This guide references some of the benefits of insurance policies provided with this card.
You should read the PDS and obtain independent professional advice before obtaining this product.
NAB.
The key appeal of the NAB Rewards Signature Visa is the ability to earn bonus points with the department and hardware stores bonus category. Otherwise the points earn rates are adequate, but not market-leading.
It’s also surprising to see no additional features or card benefits for the NAB Rewards Signature Visa outside of earning points, access to a concierge service, the usual range of insurances that come with premium credit cards, and standard Signature Visa benefits which are available across other Signature Visas too.
Many cards at this fee level offer lounge passes or other travel benefits and they are lacking from the NAB Rewards Signature Visa – it depends on whether you’d value benefits like these, or not, as to whether that matters to you. NAB points cash cow can now only be milked once per 12 months. Just noticed NAB have added “bonus points offer is not available to existing customers who have received or are entitled to receive NAB Rewards Bonus Points for a new personal NAB Rewards credit card or NAB Home loan in the twelve months prior to the opening of a NAB Rewards Signature Card”