Some might have thought ‘Unforgettable’ would eventually become forgettable, but the CBS drama starring Poppy Montgomery and Dylan Walsh just become even more “unforgettable.”
Surprise! The drama revolving around the life of Carrie Wells (Montgomery) who is not only great at solving crimes, but who also possesses the ability to visually remember everything, has been picked up for a third season, Deadline reported last night. Let’s hope she remembers this exciting news.
‘Unforgettable’ will return for 13 episodes in summer 2014. The show’s second season concluded this past summer and earned 8.2 million viewers in the Sunday 9 p.m. slot.
Before the series even returned in summer 2013 with 13 episodes, CBS actually pulled the plug on the show. It didn’t have much success as a freshman series, but then the unexpected happened. ‘Unforgettable’ fans wish came true when it was announced the series would return. I guess fans took the revival seriously and decided they better tune in if they wanted the show to continue to air. It’s a good possibility that since the show aired during the summer more viewers tuned in. Maybe it’s a summer blessing?
Are you surprised ‘Unforgettable’ is returning? Will you tune in for a third season starring Montgomery and Walsh? Sound off in the comments and let us know your thoughts!
I am really pissed off over how the networks are puting this to air. the secons season aired for only 7 episodes and the next 2 come at the begining of Dec 2013 with the last 4 episodes of season 2 starting from the last week of Jan 2014. In all that will be 4 breaks in a 13 episode season that would have been quicker to watch if they only played an episode every two & a half weeks. Season 2 started in July 2013 and ends in Feb 2014, thats 7 months for 13 episodes. I love this show and really hope they treat the third season with more respect.
The way the show was originally conceived it wasn't a sure thing to succeed. In fact, some of the story behind the death of Montgomery's characters sister grew tiresome. Yes, I know it was a show with a long arcing goal but it was overdone. They pulled back with season 2 and made it more of a crime drama without with less soap operaness. That's a huge plus in my book and makes the show more accessible to more people. Is it the best show on TV? No. Was season 2 better than season 1? Absolutely. Season 3 will be the real test. It'll either sink or swim.
I think finally a network looked at the success USA and TNT have with their short run summer series and decided to try the model. I would rather see this model than more talent and reality shows.
As the curator of our ratings reports, I find this kind of surprising. Sure, 8.2 million viewers sounds good, but the prized 18-49 demographic has largely exited stage left. The first season had very respectable demos, this season not so much.
"The show’s second season concluded this past summer"
The second season *hasn't* concluded yet. Only 7 episodes have aired thus far, with the 8th scheduled for Dec. 1 and the 9th for Dec. 8. No further episodes are listed, even though it was announced that there would be 13 episodes this season...hopefully the remainder are going to air after the Christmas break, and the lack of listings is simply because nobody's looking that far ahead yet.