His latest book False Profits, Recovering from the Bubble Economy, is an attempt to give a straightforward account of the worst financial crisis in 70 years and stem what he sees as moves to rewrite history by the folk who got it all wrong.
Any narrative of the crisis that strays into collateralised debt obligations or structured investment vehicles is part of a plot to absolve the incompetent from blame, he argues.
By his telling, the unravelling of the American economy was inevitable — a simple consequence of the collapse of an $8 trillion housing bubble that had been inflated by politicians and the Federal Reserve. Fans of Alan Greenspan, if there are any left, will wince.
Baker — a co-director of the Centre for Economic and Policy Research — cannot be dismissed as being wise after the event: he was banging on about this bubble since at least 2002. Indeed, identifying that the American housing market was overvalued was a matter, he says, of "third-grade arithmetic".
For 100 years, from 1895 to 1995, American house prices tracked inflation. On average, houses rose in value at the same rate as food, cars and clothes. A trend that lasts so long and manages to survive world wars and the Great Depression should be taken seriously. Any deviation from it would need to be explained.
Between 1995 and 2002, houses prices outpaced inflation by 30% — already a $3 trillion bubble.
"Absolutely nothing on either the demand or the supply side of the market could have explained this unprecedented increase," he writes.
The rental market, he notes, continued to rise in line with inflation and so there was no reason to see the surge in house prices as anything other than an unsustainable bubble — just another internet-style boom which was bound to go pop.
At that point, regulators such as the Federal Reserve should have highlighted the evidence that was staring it in the face and clamped down on bad loans from the banks. The banks themselves in turn should have been more cautious. What should be done to prevent the same thing happening again?
Baker says: sack everyone in a position of authority who couldn't see it coming to give the next lot the incentive to get it right. America's financial system, he reckons, doesn't need new regulations just new regulators.
"Washington is chock-full of people working on economic policy in positions at the Treasury, the Fed and various regulatory agencies and elsewhere who earn six-figure salaries.
"They all failed to see or issue warnings about the housing bubble. Not one of these has gotten fired. In fact, not a single person involved in economic policy has probably even missed a promotion because of this gross failing," he writes. Baker doesn't get invited to cocktails in the capital much. It's a refreshing approach.
Dean Baker's False Profits, Recovering from the Bubble Economy is published by PoliPoint Press
Too much or too little? Either way, Blankfein's pay defies logic
"There's speculation and there's stupidity. This speculation transcends the simply stupid and takes it to a new level."
That's Goldman Sachs' usually charming spokesman Lucas Van Praag dismissing a newspaper report suggesting that the bank is poised to pay chief executive Lloyd Blankfein $100 million for his efforts in the past year.
The story, we are told, is "rather bizarre", "nonsense" and "fictional".
The thing is, were it not for the pressure the bank is under to look "responsible" on the issue of executive pay, and the embarrassment the top brass seem to feel about their own rewards (what took them so long?), that's roughly what Blankfein would be getting.
After all, he got $68 million in 2007, a year when the bank didn't do anything like as well as it has just done.
So if it isn't giving Blankfein more than that, Goldman is underpaying him this year.
This presumably means, given the bank's usual justification for its pay structure, that he is now highly likely to quit in search of higher rewards elsewhere.
Alternatively, the $68 million he got three years ago was completely absurd, and he should give most of it back. Which is it?
Lloyds must hurry for benefits of St James's sell-off
Expect news from St James's Place sooner rather than later.
The insurer and wealth manager is 60%-owned by Lloyds Banking Group, a stake it acquired as part of the ill-fated HBOS deal last year.
All agree that in the long term this is an anomaly which needs to be ironed out — a bank owned by the taxpayer shouldn't really hold stakes in the likes of SJP — but the public stance is that there is no rush.
In theory both sides are perfectly happy with the status quo for the time being: St James's Place chief executive David Bellamy says he would prefer to see the stake placed in the market rather than sold to a larger group that might try to interfere in a highly successful operation but he's comfortable letting Lloyds go at its own pace.
And Eric Daniels, chief executive at Lloyds, has bigger fish to fry — so why worry about this?
One good reason to expect action is that the new Euro-imposed banking rules — laws and regulations issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, also known as Basel II — come into place in 2012.
At the moment, banks get full credit for the embedded value of any insurer they happen to own, boosting their balance sheets.
But as soon as Basel II kicks in, they only get half credit. That means around £400 million of capital will disappear — not a huge amount for a business the size of Lloyds but enough to affect the banks' tier-one capital ratio. The point is that St James's Place is presently on the up — fourth-quarter sales figures were excellent, "stunning", even, according to one analyst.
So right now Lloyds could probably sell its stake at a premium to embedded value, an opportunity that may not exist for long.
That's why you can assume that talks are underway at some level.
The quicker Lloyds does a deal the better.
- More about:
- Alan Greenspan
- Federal Reserve
- Financial Crisis
