Academic is one of the most common lines of study to get settled in an occasion. But it is certainly not the easiest one to survive. It is not only reading books that can make a student good in knowledge. There are certain rules that you need to follow besides reading that can bring the achievement of being best in academics.
1) Regular to your classes
Being regular to classes does not only mean to be there for the attendance. One needs to be attentive in class as well. Teachers and professors do not always follow book rules to solve problems. Sometimes they show tricks to solve bigger problems. Also, class is the only place where important announcements come. During the classes, some professors even mention the tips for the exams as well which you will miss if you are irregular. This will make you a good listener and a better notes-taker. English homework will help her/him to be the best in English.
2) Active Participation
It is not always wise enough to be present at places and be passive. To make your presence known, you need to participate in almost anything and everything. More important, one should participate in those tasks that need rationality. Participating in debate always will enhance your logicality and strain. Participation in drama always brings up your extracurricular talent which is also important besides studies. Even if there is something going on in your presence which you don’t know, participate in that as well. This will help you develop new skills in academics.
3) Be help-seeking as well as help-lending
One should never feel shame in seeking help. It might happen that in class you do not understand a topic. But you did not ask the professors to explain it one more time to you as that will bother others. Always ask help as many times as you need before you get the concept clearly. Also, never have second thoughts to help others in any way possible.
4) Create and maintain a planner/chart
Before you execute the plan, it is more important to plan and act. Creating a planner gets half of your way ready. Besides, if you do not decide earlier which one to read within what time, you can never prepare your whole syllabus before your exam. And to be perfect, it is important to have knowledge of everything.
5) Challenge yourself
You should always know that the harder things always teach better. So, whenever you see anything in academics that you do not like, take that as a challenge. This will not only enhance your self-confidence, but also will also make you master of that.
6) Meeting with the professors
This might be a topic to discuss among other students. But you should always first focus on your benefit. Meeting the professors will always bring attention of them to you. When they are noticing you, they can identify your strength and weak-points. You can work hard accordingly and strengthen your weak-points to be a good student overall. Such a voluntary interaction will also build good reputation of you to the teachers as an ‘enthusiast’ student.
7) Time Management
Time is a very important part of student life as it is irreversible. SO, you must plan your assignments according to the time. You must always do the hard words first followed by the easier ones. Keep the easiest things for the last minutes of time.
8) Be your own examiner
The self help is the best help. As you are studying according to a routine or plan, you must judge your capabilities at times as well. Set your own question paper being neutral and sit for exams. After the exam, judge yourself as well. Practice makes a man perfect and examination will make you perfect to your studies. Online assignment help will also help you get standard question papers.
If you can maintain all the above routines for yourself in s strict manner, there is nothing that can stop you to be the best.
Written By Jessica Gross
I am a professional providing help to the students writing a college essay. Also, I often blog at PostBloggers.com and Conten