(Props: YouTube.com/PrivateMichael104)
The story of Tito Ortiz getting punched out by convicted bank robber Lee Murray during an alleyway altercation after UFC 38 has grown into one of MMA’s most beloved bits of folklore. The most famous version — relayed second-hand from a drunken Pat Miletich and published in Matt Hughes‘s autobiography Made in America — ends with Tito Ortiz getting starched by "like, a five-punch combo," then boot-stomped.
On this Friday’s installment of Michael Schiavello’s HDNet interview series The Voice Vs…, Ortiz gets to tell his side of the tale. Basically, it was Ortiz’s friend that was getting stomped, and when Murray dropped Ortiz with a punch it was more of slip then anything else, and that only happened after Murray was running away like a little bitch, and Tito was able to pop back up anyway. As Tito explains, "I was never unconscious at the time, in my whole career I’ve never been unconscious, and I never will go unconscious." Also, Lee Murray’s robbery conviction was karmic revenge for this embarrassing story being spread around.
No mention of the best part of the Ortiz vs. Murray street fight legend, which involved Chuck Liddell knocking multiple dudes out with his back against a wall. Where were you back then, TMZ?
Cagepotato Comments
Showing 1-25 of commentscomments
Tito's head so fat when he gets cut in a fight he uses bacon for band-aids.
Tito's head so fat he gots to iron his walk-out beanie in the driveway.
Tito's head so fat it sweats butter.
Tito's head so fat when he goes to the zoo elephants throw peanuts at it.
BTW, loved the reference Rick Ja...I mean EL Famous B
Fuck Yer Couch Nephew!!!
Say it isn't soooooooooooo
serious note; the fake nervous laugh said as much as the constant looking away. you got knocked out. And also note how he does not address Chuck laying people out all over the place, cuz that's gotta be the part of the story Tito hates the most.
I'm fucking telling you, CP. Knock this shit off. It's not funny.
Maybe when a mild mannered environmental engineer from Colorado named Bruce Bannister takes his horse pills and turns into the hulking Shane Carwin he might have a chance to KO Tito. But otherwise... I just don't see it happening.
I don't know... if someone busted into my hotel room in the middle of the night, woke my ass up, and told me about a giant bar fight with some friends of mine who happen to be the biggest stars in MMA at the time, I might remember that. And I doubt Matt and Pat talked about it that night, and then agreed to never speak of this event again. I'm sure there were some refreshers on the story during those years of training together.
Plus, If it comes to believing Matt Hughes over Tito Ortiz, I'll take Hughes. Hughes may be a lot of things, but Tito is a proven liar. Also, I think Tito's side of things largely confirms most of what Hughes recounted. Tito just refutes the head stomp (may be true?) and denies actually being KO'ed. But if Tito got knocked down by a quick 4 or 5 shots, whether out cold or not, I'm sure it looked that way to Pat while in the fray of the fight.
Im pretty sure he stole that quote from his wife's auto-biography.
The video uncovers Tito's secret "Fresh Prince/Carltonesque" defensive stance.
To avoid being knocked out, simply place you hands palms down on the back of your skull, close your elbows to cover your face, duck down and wait for the referee or police to arrive. To remain concious try to recite the names of men who have skull phucked your wife and lies you have told family and friends over the course of your life.
I've got $2 that says Ortiz/Hammill is declared a no-contest when, mid-beating, Jenna uses her flappy vagina to glide into the octagon like a flying squirrel and rescue Ortiz from the KO at the hands of the dude with the soft skull.
I'm one of the baddest motherfuckers of all time, one of the best singers and one of the best looking motherfuckers you've ever seen. Hold my drink, bitch.
The man speaks the truth people.