Contact Information & Staff
Mailing address:
Southwestern Native Aquatic Resources and Recovery Center
PO Box 219
Dexter, NM 88230
Phone: (575) 734-5910
Tuesday and Thursday - 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
Federal Holidays - Closed
For directions to the hatchery go to our Visitor Information page.
Directors & Unit Leaders
Manuel E. Ulibarri, B.S., Center Director - Expertise: Program Development and Coordination.
Manuel began his fisheries career as a student intern working for the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish. Over the past 22 years he has overseen all operations at four USFWS Region 2 facilities. During this time he has developed expertise in warm water fish culture, specializing in the conservation of threatened and endangered aquatic species.
Vacant, Assistant Center Director
Wade Wilson, PhD, Research Unit Leader, Regional Geneticist
Teresa D. Lewis, PhD, Southwestern Fish Health Unit Leader - Expertise: Fish Health Biologist. Dr. Lewis joined the Fish Health Center on October 26, 2008. Dr. Lewis is originally from Oklahoma and earned her PhD in Marine and Marine Science/College of William and Mary. She has collaborated with many partners while in Hawaii, including the Hawaii Aquaculture Development Program, NOAA Sea Grant, USGS National Wildlife Health Center, Pacific Island groups and local Aquaculture businesses to address animal health issues. Dr. Lewis is very hands-on in her approach to fish health diagnostics and has strong ties with the fish health communities throughout the U.S.
Vacant, Hatchery Manager
Fish Health Staff
Marlene Rodarte, B.S., Fish Biologist
Jason Woodland, M.S., Fish Biologist
David Hampton, Fish Biologist
Linda Vannest, Fish Biologist
Ashlie Peterson, Fish & Wildlife Biologist
Fish Culture Staff
William Knight, BS, Supervisory Fish Biologist (Acting unit lead)
Ian Paige, BS, Fish Biologist
Garrad Poole, Fish Biologist
Tracy Diver, Fish Biologist
Research Unit Staff
Morgan Robinson, Ph.D., Geneticist
Renee Martin, Genetics
Administrative & Support Staff
Maria Bullard - Adminstrative Officer
Michelle Bell - Administrative Tech
Stephanie Callicut - Administrative Tech
David King - Maintenance Mechanic.