New Titles - w/e 2nd February
in hardback:
Iain M. Banks - Matter big new sf novel
J. G. Ballard - Miracles of Life an autobiography! Some of this may seem familiar as background for Empire of the Sun, The Kindness of Women and a long Foundation article in their series called ‘The Profession of Science Fiction‘ but this appears to be freshly written…
Jack Whyte - Standard of Honor 2nd in his Templar Trilogy, a sequel to Knights of the Black and White
John Ringo & Travis S. Taylor - Manxome Foe the sequel to Into the Looking Glass and The Vorpal Blade
Mark L. Van Name & T. K. F. Weiskopf (editors) - Transhuman original anthology
in large format:
Lois McMaster Bujold - Miles in Love omnibus containing Komarr, A Civil Campaign and a 60 page story called Winterfair Gifts
Keith Laumer - Earthblood and other stories full-length novel co written with Rosel George Brown together with more short stories - 3 related to Earthblood by Laumer and 6 others by Brown…
John Crowley - Love & Sleep the 2nd in his now complete Aegypt quartet
John Marks - Fangland fun-souding vampire novel…
Justin Gustainis - Black Magic Woman a Quincy Morris Supernatural Investigation
Classic Victorian & Edwardian Ghost Stories interesting -looking anthology with more well known names than you’d think!
in paperback:
Robert Asprin & Jody Lynn Nye - Myth-Gotten Gains the 18th in the series!
Eric Flint & Ryk E. Spoor - Boundary fast-moving sf; I enjoyed the hardback…
Fiona McIntosh - Emissary 2nd book in her Percheron series… sequel to Odalesque
Katherine Kurtz - Childe Morgan a stand-alone Dernyi novel, set before the original series
Christopher Golden The Borderland 2nd in The Veil series; I enjoyed this in a larger edition last year and I’m looking forward to the next one in late March
Gail Z. Martinez - The Blood King part 2 of the Chronicles of the Necromancer,the sequel to The Summoner
David Drake - Some Golden Harbor the 5th Lt. Leary adventure
C. S. Friedman - Feast of Souls book 1 of the Magister Trilogy
Edward Willett - Marseguro sf set on a forgotten colony world populated by true humans and selkies…
S. M. Peters - Whitechapel Gods Victorian steampunk/horror novel - looks intriguing
Brian Herbert - Sidney’s Comet light-hearted sf; first published in 1990, well before his Dune-related collaborations with Kevin Anderson
Mark del Franco - Unquiet Dreams dark fantasy featuring Celtic fairies vs. Teutonic elves. Reminds me of The Blue and the Grey by Timothy Zahn!
Brian Keene - Dark Hollow horror
Thomas Tessier - The Nightwalker horror
Philip Jose Farmer - Strange Relations omnibus also containing Flesh and The Lovers
Charlaine Harris - A Bone to Pick the 2nd Aurora Teagarden mystery
Denise Little (editor) - Mystery Date fantasy dates
Star Trek Klingon Empire - A Burning House by Keith R. A. DeCandido another adventure of the I.K.S. Gorkon, as they return home…
Mechwarrior: Dark Age - To Ride the Chimera by Kevin Killiany
Forgotten Realms - Sembia: Gateway to the Realms #7 - Lord of Stormweather by Dave Gross
Eberron - Blade of the Flame #3 - Sea of Death by Tim Waggoner
Warhammer - Oathbreaker by Nick Kyme featuring a bank of dwarves…
Warhammer 40,000 - Hammer of Daemons by Ben Counter featuring the Grey Knights & also
Scourge the Heretic by Sandy Mitchell
art. etc:
Eva-Lena Rehnmark - Neither God Nor Devil excellent book about our perception of wolves through the ages - I’ve not been able to get hold of it for months…
The Art of Pixar a box of 100 different postcards to celebrate 20 years of Pixar films
Ron Goulart - Good Girl Art an overview of the depiction of women in comics
Greg Broadmore - Doctor Grordbort’s Contrapulatronic Dingus Directory great-looking retro art; sort of steampunk, from Weta
Jordi Bernet - Bernet a retrospective of this European artist edited by Manuel Aued. Best known, maybe, for his hard-boiled detective strip, Torpedo, some of which is included here…
Modern Masters volume fifteen - Mark Schultz
Dan de Carlo vol 2 more risque cartoons from the 50s & 60s
The Best of Draw! drawing tips culled from the magazine…
Fastner & Larson - Tricks & Treats their latest colour collection from SQP
Mermaid Song #1 - Desires of the Deep new from SQP in colour
Devil Dolls volume 2 from SQP
Fairy Tails 2 from SQP
magazines, etc:
Juxtapoz February cover date
Weird Tales #347 Nov/Dec cover date; I guess they’re running a little late…
Illustration issues 20 & 21
Mome issue 10; cover date Winter/Spring
Jason - The Last Musketeer quirky graphic novel…
audio:
Doctor Who - Dead London full cast drama with Paul McGann from Big Finish