Creative and related courses. At three locations ten IT companies from the region the kids imagine, including software developers, IT security professionals, but also systems integrators such as the Concat AG. They have to offer more than 300 vacancies in the IT sector. “Many students believe only in a large company to find, a varied work tasks in a smaller company are versatile,” explains Dirsch Weigand of the IHK Darmstadt Dr.
Andrea. Add to your understanding with Pittsburgh Steelers. The corporate network “IT FOR WORK” of IHK Darmstadt has launched jointly with the Agency YOUNG the job tour in life TARGETS and ten IT companies. A shuttle bus students and graduates go to the Companies and may there find out about career opportunities – or just entering the profession. Darmstadt Lord Mayor Jochen are available on the common evening Partsch and Division Head of the Chamber of Commerce innovation Dr. Roland Lentz for questions. The Rhine-Main-Neckar region is the birthplace of enterprise software, the software for business processes within and between companies. The regional pooling of competences in this area is unique in the world. Around 7,000 software companies employ 60,000 people.
To be prepared for the future, the professionals must be made today by morning. The event is designed for approximately 80 to 100 students and graduates. To be at the job touring with, interested only with a hard skill profile on the site must register. They get an “application folder” of companies, which is filled with their “Resumes”, as well as blank business cards at the start of the tour. Successful negotiations with a Can these be filled with individual contact information and deposited. “Around to be able to give you an insight into our company and get to know 100 students a day is a great opportunity,” so Dexter McGinnis, CEO of Concat AG in Bensheim. “We have constantly vacancies and would be delighted to find a student or new employee about the job tour.” The job of tour participants: AGT Group GmbH, Accso GmbH, ameria GmbH, applied security GmbH, Bechtle GmbH & co. KG, Concat AG, Devoteam Danet GmbH, European Space Agency, software AG, TopLink GmbH. More information: registration: booking company description the Concat AG () has been active since 1990 as innovative system integrator in the German-speaking market and joined 2006 to the prestigious Meridian Group International, Inc., United States (). The comprehensive portfolio of the company includes the conception and realisation of complex IT infrastructure solutions for medium and large companies. The focus is in the areas of storage, backup, and archiving for highly available, heterogeneous data landscape. The company headquarters are located in Bensheim. Eleven branch offices and sales offices provide a nationwide customer on-site.