Garbage Disposal: Your Ultimate Guide to Commercial Grease Trap
A grease trap refers to a device used in plumbing which is specifically designed to filter greases before entering the wastewater disposal system, and it is called grease interceptor or grease converter. When it comes to the difference between a grease trap and a grease interceptor, the former has a flow rate of fewer than fifty gallons per minute, while the latter grease has more than fifty gallons per minute. The grease trap tank is the reservoir that holds the wastewater and the food solids entering the trap, then as the wastewater cools, the grease, fats, and oil becomes hardened on the top of the grease trap, and there is a settlement of food solids. The average cost of grease trap installation differs from $250 up to $8,500 depending on the number of gallons.
When it comes to sizing commercial grease traps, the size varies according to the rate of incoming flow as expressed in gallons per minute or GPM, and it is associated in the capacity of the grease trap expressed in pounds. When cleaning your grease trap, it is important to wait for the water to cool inside, allowing ten minutes to pass by after you empty the waste water from the automatic dishwasher or compartment sink. Be sure to clean your grease trap or grease interceptor on a regular basis so that fats, oil, and grease won’t mix with water that is discharged to the sewer. In food service facilities, the minimum cleaning frequency for grease traps or grease interceptors is about 90 days. You need to clean your grease traps or grease interceptor at least every three months..
The most overlooked equipment in commercial kitchens are grease traps. Grease traps help in proper waste disposal preventing clogging your entire system, but many business owners and managers overlook the maintenance and cleanliness of their grease traps or grease interceptors and they are only dealt with when they notice any problem. The repair cost for a grease trap or grease interceptor is rather expensive so it is best to have it cleaned regularly by contacting a professional. Never underestimate the importance and capabilities of your grease trap or grease interceptor, have it regularly cleaned, and maintained. For more details about different garbage disposal systems, feel free to check us out today!
Doing Options The Right Way
6 Facts About Disposals Everyone Thinks Are True