booking terms and conditions
Booking Conditions and General Information for Glaneirw Coach House.
Jane Lloyd Evans and Nigel Foster are the owners of the property. The hiring contract is between the Hirer and the Owner of the property for which the booking is made and incorporates the conditions set out below:
Authority to Sign under 18 years of age.
Payment
Bookings are to be accompanied by a deposit of one third of the rent. The balance of the rent must be paid 56 days (8 weeks) before the commencement of the holiday. Non payment of the balance of the rent on or before the due date shall be construed as a cancellation of the contract by the Hirer. The full rent is payable if the occupation date is less than 56 days (8 weeks) persons allowed at the property is clearly stated and must not be exceeded. (Owners reserve the right to terminate the hire without notice and without refund in case of a breach of this condition).
We do NOT accept pets.
Cancellation
If the Hirer wishes to cancel the booking they should advise the owners, immediately by telephone, followed by a confirmatory letter. Upon receipt of such letter the owners will (but without any obligation to the Hirer) use their best endeavours to obtain a replacement letting and, if such replacement is obtained, will then refund to the Hirer any monies received less a handling charge. If the owner is unable to re-let the OWNER shall be entitled to retain all payments already made and to recover, if not already paid, the balance of the hiring charge.
Non-availability of Property
If, for any reason beyond the Agent.
Arrival and Departure Times
The property is normally only available after 3.00 p.m. on the day of arrival and must be vacated by 10. a.m on the day of departure please.
Bed linen
We provide bed linen and beds are fully made up and ready for your arrival.
Also provided are personal towels and tea towels.
Christmas & New Year Festivities
Glaneirw Coach House is available throughout the winter. At Christmas we provide a complimentary Christmas tree and decorations.
Complaints. Discussion with the Owner or his representative whilst you are in residence usually enables shortcomings to be rectified.
Verification
Glaneirw Coach House has been inspected, by WTB personnel and we have complied with and are indeed far above their required standards.
Information Collection Andaneir.
Glaneir
Glaneirw may disclose your Personal Data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to:
- To comply with a legal obligation
- To protect and defend the rights or property of Glaneir.