Perrysburg resident to appear in March issue of Teen Vogue
Perrysburg resident Jordan Conrad, a senior at Notre Dame Academy in Toledo, has been named a Teen Role Model and a “fresh face” for designer Paul Frank's spring campaign.
Her prizes included a photo shoot wearing Paul Frank designs that will appear in the March issue of Teen Vogue, along with trips to California for the photo shoot and to the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in New York City this month.
Her entry addressed why she is a good role model for others.
“I try to make a difference by mentoring peers, tutoring after school, and volunteering as much as possible. I don’t drink or go to parties,” explained Ms. Conrad. It was one of five selected from over 1,000 essays. The final selection was based on a Skype interview.
Paul Frank is an American cartoonist, artist, and fashion designer. His creations adorn clothing, accessories, and many other products. Julius the Monkey is one of his best known-characters, and has appeared in a variety of media. Ms. Conrad describes Paul Frank as “unique, creative, and fun.”
At Notre Dame, Ms. Conrad is a role model and leader in multiple ways. She is a member of Link Crew, a group of primarily seniors who mentor freshmen. She was captain of the cross country team and encourages everyone to do their best. Despite not ever having played lacrosse, she went out for the sport her junior year. She made the junior varsity team, but moved up to varsity by the end of the season. She brings spirit to school as a member of Pep Club. She is very involved in social justice issues as part of the Social Justice Alliance and Students Equipped to Advocate for Life Team.
She has volunteered for Make-A-Wish since she was in eighth grade, helping with the holiday party and working with children at their yearly race. She has also volunteered at the Salvation Army and helped at the St. Rose Vacation Bible School.
She is an honor student taking Advanced Placement courses.
While on her recent trips to California and New York for the role model contest, she experienced marketing first hand and plans to make it one of her majors in college at John Carroll University next fall.