Updated on January 10, 2019. Medical content reviewed by Dr. Richard Koffler, MD, Board Certified Physiatrist
The State of New York passed a piece of marijuana legislation that effectively establishes a state-regulated medical marijuana program. While the measure itself narrows down the amount of qualifying diagnoses or conditions that would qualify a patient for the therapeutic use of cannabis within the state, New York’s program was drafted with careful and strict controls that will operate under very tight regulation and oversight.
Patients who are certified by a licensed healthcare practitioner to use medical marijuana in New York are required to register with the New York State Department of Health and must obtain a New York medical marijuana card, which will serve as a means of identification for the state-sanctioned patient registry.
The passage of this bill makes New York the 23rd state in the country, to set the foundation for a medical marijuana program. “The Compassionate Care Act” outlines a limited list of different debilitating medical conditions, for which marijuana is recommended to be medically beneficial. Before the bill’s passage, state lawmakers narrowed down the list of qualifying conditions that would allow a patient to qualify for the program. Legislators removed glaucoma – citing better pharmaceutical options – and narrowed “arthritis” specifically down to just “rheumatoid arthritis”.
* Please note: In order to become registered as a New York medical marijuana patient, you MUST first possess a document-driven condition that has been clearly outlined by the New York State Department of Health’s list of qualifying conditions (as per the Compassionate Care Act). The New York Health Commissioner must decide whether to add Alzheimer’s, muscular dystrophy, dystonia, PTSD, and rheumatoid arthritis within 18 months of the law’s effective date. The Health Commissioner may add or delete conditions to the list of qualifying ailments, at any time.. other medical marijuana states, New-smokable products. This legislation,k which would also increase the amount of non-smokable