San Jose, California (PRWEB) June 10, 2014
Follow us on LinkedIn – A part of the automated assembly line at factory floors, packaging machines are the final step in the manufacturing process. Growth in the packaging machinery industry is primarily influenced by global trade in and domestic consumption of packaged goods and changing safety and environmental legislations on packaging. End-use customer clusters are increasingly shifting to sophisticated, faster, integrated and standardized equipment in a bid to decrease packaging waste and comply with environmental standards. The food industry is forecast to remain the most important market for packaging machinery. Demand for pharmaceutical packaging machinery is expected to witness strong growth supported by the increase in new drug development and drug manufacturing activity. Shorter innovation cycles and heightened competition in most industry verticals will encourage investments in innovative packaging technologies, concepts, and machinery.
Value-added packaging is the most important trend driving demand for new and efficient packaging machinery. Integrated system solutions are increasingly becoming customary because of stringent customer specifications, concerns for enhanced product quality, and mounting issues of equipment standardization. Customer preferences are shifting away from stand-alone machinery to integrated packaging equipment solutions. Other technology trends shaping market growth include increasing deployment of servos, networking architectures and robotic applications in packaging machinery. Aseptic packaging machinery and flexible packaging machinery represent two of the strongest growing product markets spearheading overall sales. The manufacturing industry’s shift from rigid packaging to flexible packaging is helping spur growth in the flexible packaging machinery market. The growing importance of high-end graphics on packaging, ease of use and dispensing of the product, lightweight, and strong barrier properties represent factors driving adoption of flexible packaging. Pharmaceutical and food packaging are major end-users of flexible packaging machinery.
The ability to meet sterile packaging needs of the pharmaceutical industry and offer cost benefits in distribution and storage of food products and beverages is driving growth in the aseptic packaging machinery market.
As stated by the new market research report on Packaging Machinery, Asia-Pacific represents the largest and the fastest growing regional market worldwide with a CAGR of 8.4% over the analysis period. Large-scale shift in consumer spending on value-added products, population growth, booming retail industry, changing life-styles, economic prosperity and increased consumption of durable and non-durable goods, are factors driving growth in the region.
Major players covered in the report include Adelphi Masterfil Ltd., Barry-Wehmiller Companies Inc., Accraply, Bosch Packaging Technology, Bradman Lake Group, Coesia SpA, Harland Machine Systems Ltd., IMA SpA, KHS USA Inc., Krones AG, Orion Packaging Systems, Tetra Laval International S.A, Tetra Pak Inc., Weber Marking Systems Inc. and Winpak Ltd. among others.
The research report titled “Packaging Machinery: A Global Strategic Business Report” announced by Global Industry Analysts Inc., provides a comprehensive review of the packaging machinery market, current market trends, key growth drivers, segmental analysis, mergers, acquisitions, other strategic industry activities of major global and regional players.:
###