As some of you may have noticed (Hi Helen!) I've been posting lots of links this week and haven't mentioned doing any actual writing or rewriting.
That's because I was either too busy or I was too tired (a pitiful excuse if ever I heard one!).
On Monday evening I just didn't feel like writing (after a big rewriting sesh on Sunday).
On Tuesday evening I didn't write because I was busy (this is a reoccurring Tuesday thing)
On Wednesday evening I didn't write because I didn't get home from work until 7.45pm and I was too tired.
And tonight I wasn't going to do anything because I was supposed to go to a friend's for dinner. But, at the last minute, dinner was cancelled so I had no excuse...
I sat down and I wrote a 1,900 word story for this round of Eurofiction (it had to be in at 8pm!). I was so pooped afterwards I was tempted to call it a night, but I couldn't stop thinking about the fact I hadn't done any rewriting since Sunday.
I opened Word and started rewriting. Not loads admittedly but another 1 percent.
This weekend I plan to write another 8% which will take me to 20% done. I'll feel like I'm getting somewhere then.
Helen/everyone - feel free to give me a kick up the arse via the comments when you notice I'm procrastinating. It works!
10,638 / 87,316 rewritten (12.1% of the novel)
9 comments:
Oh no! But...
I am glad it has worked as when I left that comment the other day I went to bed feeling really bad incase you were offended (I'm worrying about everything at the moment *sigh*. Husband is getting mad with me.)You know when you write something down and you don't know if it would be received in the same way you meant it...?
Anyway I'm blethering.
Well done on your progress! Feel free to kick me up the arse too. Just to get your own back.
Oh Helen, you silly! Don't worry I didn't take offence at all. Your comment made me realise what I was doing which was a very good thing! If you hadn't posted it I wouldn't have rewritten anything tonight and I'd have even more to do this weekend!
And yes, I totally know what you mean about writing a comment and not being sure how it'll be received - that's why I go mad with smilies and exclamation marks in my comments on other people's blogs. I'd hate to think I'd ever offended anyone when I was teasing or joking!
But anyway, thank you. Feel free to arse kick again!
Good. I am relieved. Like I said I am worrying about everything at the moment. Funnily enough though not about my writing!
:)
;)
:p
and so on!
Cally, I've tagged you.
JJx
Rats! JJ beat me to it!
very good blog, congratulations
regard from Catalonia Spain
thank you
I just don't know how you do it all - all these short stories submissions (and hits!), I think your work rate is pretty amazing considering you appear to have a) a full time job, b) a social life and c) a boyf! Are you one of these Thatcher-style 3 hours of sleep a night gals?
Don't be too hard on yourself; sometimes things need a bit of time to marinate anyway. I know you'll get on with it when you have to. However, it is good we can kick each other up the bum every now and then!
I enjoy your blog, whatever you write quite frankly...it's always interesting!
I'm the worst for 'not getting on with it' so I'm hardly in a position to criticise :)
As long as you kick me up the ass, I'll return the favour! Keep it up mate xx