With 2021 well and truly underway and the recent cold weather, many of us are hoping that we might be able to get away for a few days at some point this year.
This week, Health Secretary Matt Hancock confirmed that UK residents returning from red list countries will have to quarantine in assigned hotel rooms, which could lead to many avoiding international travel.
While travel in the UK is still restricted, people will now still be holding out hope for the chance to visit their favourite holiday parks.
It’s possible that once travel restrictions are lifted, holiday parks like Haven, Center Parcs, Pontins and more will see a rush of visitors, depending on what the government's 'roadmap out of lockdown' looks like when it's announced this month.
Enter your postcode for the latest on coronavirus cases in your area:
Whether you’re hoping to get away with the kids or take an adults-only trip, here’s the latest updates from the UK’s biggest holiday parks.
Centre Parcs
All UK villages are currently closed until at least March 7, which will be reviewed following the next update from the government.
Centre Parcs’ website says: .”
Those impacted by the extended closure will be contacted by the company with instructions on how to cancel activities and restaurant bookings and how to reschedule with a discount to the value of £100 or cancel with a full refund.
Pontins
Pontins has made the decision to delay the reopening of its parks until the end of March 2021.
In an update on its website, Pontins wrote: “Due to the government’s recent announcement we are incredibly saddened and naturally disappointed to announce that we will be delaying the re-opening of all our holiday parks.
“As always the health and safety of our guests and staff will remain our main priority and these are the actions we unfortunately need to take.
dean Resorts
Parkdean is already offering Easter holiday, as well as summer breaks, which can be refunded completely if bookings are disrupted by coronavirus under the company’s ‘Covid promise’.
A note on the Parkdean Resorts website says: "In these uncertain times, you can be sure of one thing – you can still book a Parkdean Resorts holiday with complete safety and financial peace of mind.
“Our promise protects both you and your money. We guarantee you can book with confidence."
Haven
Haven is due to reopen in mid-March and is now taking bookings for spring 2021, with prices starting from £49.
The holiday park has introduced a Coronavirus Book with Confidence Guarantee, which means customers who are self isolating, are affected by new government restrictions or just can’t make it to their trip will get a full refund, not questions asked.
According to the Haven Holidays website, 2021 breaks will be “dependent on the Government guidelines nearer the time of re-opening”.
Butlin’s
According to the Butlin’s website, the holiday parks remain closed until March 14, due to “uncertainty around when the current restrictions will be lifted”.
A note on the website said: “Due to the uncertainty around when we can reopen and how long it will take to get our resorts ready to welcome guests back, we’re sad to say we will be extending our closure to the 14th March.”
Ribby Hall Village
Ribby Hall village is currently closed, but is now taking booking for 2021.
The company is offering a ‘Covid Confidence Guarantee’, with customers able to reschedule at no extra charge, pay their balance four weeks before arrival and a full balance gift card available if they need to cancel.
Receive newsletters with the latest news, sport and what's on updates from the Liverpool ECHO by signing up here.
Hoseasons
Hoseasons is currently accepting 2021 bookings via its website, though its parks currently remain closed due to national lockdown.
According to its website, those with bookings on or before March 7 will be contacted to discuss their options, which include the choice of a refund or a voucher of the amount paid.
Receive newsletters with the latest news, sport and what's on updates from the Liverpool ECHO by signing up here.
Those with bookings on or after March 8 will be contacted closer to the time.
Anyone with bookings for venues in Wales on or before February 19 will receive an email containing your options. The same applies for those with bookings in Scotland on or before February 21.
You can find out more here.