After passing American warships from the disputed island in the South China Sea, China filed a tough diplomatic protest against the United States on Monday.
Washington,
Between talks between Washington and Beijing to resolve a trade war, a US Navy missile-distroyer made a trip around the disputed islands in South China Sea on Monday, where China has built several military establishments. The United States and its associates continue to send aircraft and warships from time to time through the region on which China is claiming it. China filed a strong diplomatic protest against it and said that America should avoid such an inflammatory move and should try to create an atmosphere for successful negotiations on the current business dispute.
On the other hand, America continues to point to China using its rights under the international law passed by the sea through it. US Pacific Fleet spokesman Rachel McMarr said, “USS McCampbell revolted around 12 nautical miles (22 kilometers) of Paracel Islands to challenge excessive maritime claims.”
After passing the American warship from disputed island, China filed a tough diplomatic protest against the US on Monday. China has said that the US should avoid such inflammatory move and should try to create an atmosphere for successful negotiations on the current business dispute. It is worth noting that the world’s two top economies have imposed an import duty of more than $ 300 billion on each other’s products. a
China has its right over the entire South China Sea and has created a military base in an artificially created island. Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei and Taiwan make their own claim on the South China Sea. China, Taiwan and Vietnam, on Parcel Island, have their rights. When asked to respond to the passing of the American vessel through Paracel Island, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said that Beijing has registered a strong protest against the US on this issue. He said that the American ship passed through the territory without China’s permission. China sent its navy ship to the confirmation and warned it.