Smearing a whole bunch of interesting ingredients on a toasted piece of sourdough bread is our kind of meal. Here, we make three different sourdough toasties that mix and match ingredients to bring out sweet, fresh, herby, earthy and zesty flavours. You can get as playful as you want with these, or keep them as simple as possible. The best part? They require minimal-to-no cooking and take literal minutes to put together.
It’s a real “you can’t get it wrong” recipe no matter how you make it. You can enjoy these toasties as a quick and easy meal or snack for yourself, or impress guests with them (seriously, they are so beautiful to look at!). While we like to devour them as an open-faced sandwich, you can always close them up for a heartier toastie.
Related: Bread Baking for Beginners: How to Make the Perfect Sourdough Loaf
Roasted Grape, Ricotta & Lemon Zest Sourdough Toastie
Prep Time: 3 minutes
Cook Time: 7-9 minutes
Total Time: 10-12 minutes
Servings: 2-4
Ingredients:
1 cup loose red grapes
½ tsp extra virgin olive oil
Pinch of sea salt, plus more for finishing
2-4 slices sourdough bread
1 tsp butter (optional)
2-4 Tbsp ricotta cheese
2 tsp chopped and toasted almonds or pecans
1 tsp lemon zest
2 sprigs fresh thyme
Pepper, to finish
Directions:
1. Preheat the toaster oven or oven to 400°F.
2. Place the grapes on a baking sheet lined with parchment. Drizzle olive oil and sea salt on top. Toss to coat and roast for 7-9 minutes until bursting open. Allow to cool slightly.
3. Meanwhile, toast the sourdough bread in a toaster. If preferred, brush the sourdough bread with butter and toast in a pan over medium heat until crisp.
4. Once toasted, spread ricotta over top. Be generous!
5. Load the roasted grapes over the ricotta and sprinkle with chopped nuts, lemon zest and thyme leaves. Finish it with a pinch of sea salt and pepper.
Related: These Easy Sourdough Discard Crackers Come Together With Just 5 Ingredients
Pesto, Feta, Beet and Honey Sourdough Toastie
Prep Time: 5 minutes
Total Time: 5 minutes
Servings: 2-4
Ingredients:
2-4 slices sourdough bread
2-4 Tbsp pesto
1 large or 2 small beets, roasted and sliced into thin wedges
2 Tbsp crumbled feta cheese
1 tsp honey
A small handful of fresh microgreens
Sea salt and pepper, to finish
Directions:
1. Toast the sourdough bread.
2. Smear a hearty amount of pesto onto the toasted sourdough and top with sliced beets.
3. Crumble feta over top of the sliced beets and drizzle with honey.
4. Top with microgreens and finish with sea salt and pepper.
Related: Conquer Brunch With This Make-Ahead Veggie Strata and Sourdough Bread
Hummus, Cheddar and Tomato Sourdough Toastie
Prep Time: 3 minutes
Cook Time: 2-5 minutes
Total Time: 5-8 minutes
Servings: 2-4
Ingredients:
2-4 slices sourdough bread
2-4 Tbsp hummus
2-6 slices cheddar cheese
2 tomatoes, sliced
1 small cucumber, ribboned
Pinch of sea salt and pepper
Directions:
1. Toast the sourdough bread.
2. Spread a generous amount of hummus onto the toasted bread and top with sliced cheddar cheese. Place in the oven to broil for 2-5 minutes or until the cheese starts bubbling.
3. Carefully remove the toast from the oven and top with tomato slices. Place the cucumber ribbons over the tomatoes.
4. Finish with sea salt and pepper.
Related: This Vegan Nashville Hot Chicken Sandwich Tastes Just Like the Real Thing!
Love Tamara and Sarah’s toasties? Try their rainbow veggie halloumi burgers next!