Newly passed legislation could give Holbrook some leverage in deciding a new water distribution source.
Town administrator William Phelan told the board of selectmen on Aug. 12 that the state environmental bond bill includes a provision that would match dollar-for-dollar the cost of a $50 million new Tri-Town water treatment plant or match Holbrook's tie-in fee to the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority (MWRA) system.
According to Phelan, Gov. Deval Patrick signed the measure on Aug. 12 that provides funding for water infrastructure improvements in the state. Phelan was one of the supporters of the bill who spoke during the legislative debate on it at the State House earlier this year.
"The language in it (bill) gives us the potential to receive a grant from the state," Phelan said.
Phelan explained that an amendment supported by Holbrook's legislators, Rep. Mark Cusack, Sen. Brian Joyce, and Sen. John Keenan would give the town an edge in either joining the MWRA or staying with Tri-Town and paying a share of building a new treatment plant in Randolph that would replace the existing aging facility.
The town has been negotiating with both the Tri-Town Water Board and the MWRA in trying to find the best cost-effective water distribution source.
Selectmen approved to send a letter of interest to the MWRA formally notifying the authority that Holbrook is interested in negotiating joining the state system.
Phelan said that the MWRA is aware of Holbrook's situation with Tri-Town and the legislation that provides an incentive to build a new treatment plant. He added that the MWRA is interested in negotiating with the Holbrook.
"They are anxious to provide water to us," he said.
The sticking point to joining the MWRA is the tie-in fee and necessary infrastructure upgrades that would cost Holbrook several million dollars, according to officials.
Phelan said the new legislation that would match Holbrook's cost of building a new treatment plant or regional water system tie-in fee could give the town an edge with the MWRA.
"We could say (to the MWRA) absorb the costs of the infrastructure and entrance fee and we will buy water from you," he said. "We will approach the MWRA one last time (with the proposal)."
Tri-Town wants to build a new plant to replace the antiquated Randolph facility.
Holbrook has balked at paying one-third of the construction cost, an agreement that goes back more than 100 years where Randolph, Braintree, and Holbrook each share equally all associated costs of the water distribution system.
Holbrook officials have argued that the cost should be based on usage. Phelan noted that Holbrook uses the least amount of water.
Phelan said that he recently got initial approval from Tri-Town that Holbrook would pay 15 percent of the plant's construction cost and 11 percent of operational costs thereafter.
Page 2 of 2 - "It was a compromise," Phelan said.
He also noted that under the Holbrook-Randolph Joint Water Board agreement, Holbrook pays half the costs.
"We've been subsidizing production of water for Randolph for over 100 years," Phelan said. "We pay 50 percent of the cost when we utilize 25 percent of the water."
He noted that Holbrook has been negotiating for a long while with both Tri-Town and the MWRA.
"The delay (in making a decision) will ultimately benefit us," Phelan said.
He noted that the Legislature just approved the SouthField bill in Weymouth that allows the development at the former South Weymouth Naval Air Station to tie into the MWRA. Phelan said Holbrook, Randolph, and Braintree could be compensated from this should the water line run through the three towns.
Phelan said that negotiations are to continue with both the MWRA and Tri-Town and expects a resolution soon.
"It's the MWRA or the plant," Phelan said. "It's an issue that would affect our residents for years and years to come."