By Susan Beam
For the Daily Record/Sunday News
West York Councilman Tim Berkheimer -- cited for sounding an air horn during a council meeting in November -- was found guilty of disorderly conduct during a hearing Monday, according to District Judge Walter Groom's office.
Berkheimer was ordered to pay a $100 fine and along with other costs, must pay a total of $281. He has 30 days to pay it, according to Groom's office.
The citation states that Berkheimer blasted an "extremely loud horn blast in extreme close proximity to numerous other persons, specifically children, adults and senior citizens, which did cause alarm to them."
Berkheimer could not be reached for comment.
Update as of Nov. 8: West York Borough Councilman Tim Berkheimer was cited for disorderly conduct for blowing an air horn during a council meeting this week.
Berkheimer, who was voted off borough council in Tuesday's election, pulled out the air horn and blew it at the peak of a heated, three-hour long debate Monday night over parking meters in the borough.
The debate ended when a police officer confiscated the air horn.
Borough police issued a citation for Berkheimer for the summary charge, which carried a maximum of 90 days in jail and a $300 fine.
Berkheimer could not be reached for comment this morning.
Original story:
It was a tense, three-hour meeting Monday night as West York Council debated several controversial issues on the eve of the hotly-contested election.
The council had to move the meeting from the borough hall to the fire hall because of the number of concerned residents who showed up.
Of major interest was what the borough planned to do with the parking meters which had recently been removed from the streets of West York. The issue has been a source of debate over the past several months.
At the last borough council meeting, council adjourned amid shouting from the audience while a motion was still on the table to list the parking meters on municibid.com, a website that, according to its site, specializes in "government auctions, police auctions, and government surplus sales."
On Monday, the council passed the motion 4-3, with council members Tim Berkheimer, Shane Louthian, Nancy Laird and council president Steve Herman in favor, and council members Brian Wilson, Annette Christine and Shelley Metzler opposed.
Prior to the motion, several suggestions had been offered to avoid listing the meters.
The council refused the fire department's offer to purchase the meters outright for $500 dollars. Metzler then made a motion, seconded by Wilson, to gift the meters to the fire department as a token of appreciation, but the motion was defeated 4-3.
The discussion became heated enough that the council president called for a 15-minute recess, during which Berkheimer blew an air horn during an argument with several borough residents. A police officer took the air horn.
When the meeting reconvened, the discussion was so intense that Herman made a motion to adjourn the meeting, the parking meter issue still in limbo as to when the meters would be listed for sale.
Prior to the parking meter discussion, an intense discussion had ensued over the borough's $6.5 million dollar budget for 2014.
After the distribution of funding was debated, council voted 4-3 to advertise the budget to the public, again with council members Berkheimer, Louthian, Laird and Herman in favor, and Wilson, Christine and Metzler opposed.
Presently, the borough no longer has its website, so residents interested in attending the next meeting should check with the borough office for a date.
Police, parking meters among concerns for West York candidates
West York residents express concerns about removal of parking meters