Saturday, May 23, 2015 @ 12:00 PM
Homage Harvest Table
Spicers Hidden Vale presents the 'Homage Harvest Table' as part of the Brisbane Good Food Month. Join us for a long lunch on Saturday 23 May where lunch will be served on a long table in the fresh market garden with a side of live Jazz.
Chef Ash Martin and his team will spend the week travelling the region collecting produce and foraging from Spicers Hidden Vale's 12,000 acre property to bring you a tasting menu fresher and more vibrant than any other.
Prices are $95 per person and include a glass of wine on arrival.
To book, phone Spicers Hidden Vale on 1300 179 340.
Tuesday, May 26, 2015 @ 6:00 PM
Peak TEST KITCHEN
Join our Chefs at The Peak for a night of indulgence as they experiment with new dishes in an intimate and fun atmosphere. Indulge as we push boundaries to create new taste sensations that will send your palate soaring. Come and give your feedback in this relaxed and fun environment with our chefs.
Price is $100pp for a 7 course degustation at a shared long table.
Bed and breakfast is available for $350 per suite twin share for the night.
Saturday, June 6, 2015 @ 1:00 PM
Kate Miller-Heidke Live at Spicers Tamarind Retreat
Experience a truly intimate concert performance by one of Australia’s most unique music talents live in our natural rainforest amphitheatre. Kate Miller-Heidke is an award-winning artist whose songs seamlessly fuse contemporary music with her classically trained background. To book your tickets call 1300 583 312 or click here
Thursday, June 11, 2015 @ 6:30 PM
Chefs in the City - Sam Hardinge
JUNE 11 – SANGOMA
SPICERS SANGOMA RETREAT | SAM HARDINGE
Savour an extraordinary evening of fine dining, as award-winning head chefs from six of our luxury retreats bring their unique approach and favourite regional flavours to the city.
Join us for four courses of the finest regional cuisine with matched wines when our popular Chefs in the City dining events return to Spicers Balfour Hotel in New Farm.
Our newest dining experience comes direct from the Blue Mountains. Enjoy Middle Eastern inspired cuisine masterfully prepared from the freshest organic and seasonal produce.
Chefs in the City Single Event Prices
$85 per person for a 4 Course Dinner
$140 per person for a 4 Course Dinner with matched wines
Reserve your Place
Places are strictly limited and bookings are essential. To reserve your place, call 1300 597 540 today. Stay tuned for more dates over the coming months.
Saturday, June 27, 2015 @ 12:30 PM
Winemakers Luncheon
Hunter Valley Food and Wine Month "Winemakers Table Series" - Spicers Vineyards Estate
Hunter Valley Wine and Food Month is a much anticipated annual event showcasing the region's diverse wine and food culture with a month long series of themed activities throughout June. Spicers Vineyards Estate's Restaurant Botanica is hosting an intimate winemaker’s luncheon with Tyrrell’s to bring you a sumptuous seasonal menu paired to award winning wines. Intimate in style, you will have the opportunity to ask questions of the winemakers and indulge in their passion and knowledge of Australia’s oldest wine region.
This event will be hosted on Sat 13th and 27th June 2015, bookings are essential.
Sunday, July 5, 2015 @ 12:30 PM
Eat Local Week: The Peak
Spicers Peak Lodge is supporting Eat Local Week; a showcase of the people and produce of the Scenic Rim. Visitors and Scenic Rim locals are invited to consider their food and wine choices and recognise the vast array of products available on their doorstep.
We'll be taking guests on a long lunch journey, spotlighting our use of produce from the local region. This is a relaxed and fun afternoon that includes share plates around the long table.
Lunch is $75 per person and local wine/beer is available on consumption.
Bed and breakfast is available for $350 per suite twin share for the night.
Saturday, July 11, 2015 @ 8:00 AM
Giant 3Plus3
Enjoyed by over 550 riders in July 2014, this popular race format makes a return.
Staged at the ‘Epic’ Hidden Vale Adventure Park, 11th-12th July, the 3PLUS3 consists of 2, 3hr races over 2 days.
To find out more and enter, visit the Giant 3Plus3 event website.
Sunday, July 12, 2015 @ 6:00 PM
Peak Collaborative Dinner
Brisbane Good Food Month showcases the best Brisbane and regional restaurants, cafes, bars and producers. As a part of this month, Spicers Peak lodge is teaming with 2 highly respected industry leaders as they present a 6 course indulgent degustation with paired wines on the mountaintop - "Omakase Dinner - "I'll Leave it to You"
Peak Lodge's Executive Chef Doug Innes-Will teams with Guest Chef Darren Purchese to present a 6 course indulgent degustation, with expertly matched wines by Chilean Guest Sommelier David Stevens-Castro.
Darren Purchese, a natural host and speaker, is an author and regular on TV especially Masterchef Australia and is the “go to guy” for comment on sweet trends locally and around the world. He is one of most respected pastry chefs working in Australia today, renowned for his exquisite and extravagant sweet creations skilfully balancing flavours, texture and kitchen wizardry to produce revolutionary dessert concepts.
David Stevens-Castro is a highly regarded wine expert originally from Chile, with a Degree in Agricultural Science specialising in fruit and wine production. He was born into a family deeply involved with wine, and inherited an incredible passion for wine from a young age.
Join us for dinner at$195pp or $250pp with matching wines
Bed and breakfast is available from $499 per night twin share
