course descriptions -
take exam -
certification -
publications -
course schedule
how to register -
useful links
why iweer -
wetland primer -
view my order -
Print-Friendly Annual Schedule
Institute for Wetland & Environmental Education & Research
Course Schedule
Basic Wetland Delineator Training**
This course is designed to provide students with hands-on experience in the field applying the methods and getting critiqued by the instructor and their peers. Taught by regional experts in plant identification, hydric soil recognition, and wetland delineation, you will learn how to recognize hydric soils and separate them from nonhydric soils - this is critically important for delineating wetland boundaries. Students will be introduced to the basic concepts and methods in lectures and field exercises. Time will be spent in the field on wetland delineation using plants, soils, and signs of hydrology to identify and delineate wetlands. The instructors will guide and coach students through the steps in conducting delineations at several sites and students will work in groups to identify wetlands and delineate the boundaries. There will also be an overview of regulations.
Focusing on the use of the Corps Wetlands Delineation manual and the
latest regional supplement
, there will also be a discussion of key differences between this manual and state methods, where appropriate. Students will receive information on where to obtain the latest regulatory guideance regarding jurisdictional questions (e.g., isolated wetlands and
Rapanos
). The course utilizes training materials developed by the Corps for the Wetland Delineator Certification Program (WDCP). The fee includes all course materials - a copy of "Wetland Indicators" (Tiner, 1999); the Corps of Engineers manual; the regional supplement; Regional Wetland Plant List, and additional information relevant to making wetland determinations.
Students successfully completing this program will be awarded a "certificate of training." The training provides approximately 2.6 credit hours toward the Society of Wetland Scientists' Professional Wetland Scientist certification and satisfies the education requirements for the Virginia, New Hampshire and Lake County, IL wetland certification programs.
Note: Students are expected to be able to identify wetland plants.
** Click on Course Location for Directions & Hotel Information **
Date(s):
June 16 - 19
Location:
Boston Area, Massachusetts
Register For This Session of
Basic Wetland Delineator Training**
Instructor(s):
Tiner &
Date(s):
August 18 - 21
Location:
Chicago Area, Illinois
Register For This Session of
Basic Wetland Delineator Training
Instructor(s):
Whited &
Tiner