The Future Project has announced the second edition of The Nigeria Symposium for Young & Emerging Leaders, an annual high-level leadership platform focused on building capacity for the new generation of Nigerian leaders.
The event will hold at the Ikogosi Resorts in Ekiti State, Nigeria from 4 – 7 April, 2013.
“We are very excited to be presenting the second edition of this historic platform – which provides a very important platform for a purposive national conversation about how the new generation of leaders can avoid the pitfalls of our history,” said Chude Jideonwo, who is executive director for The Future Project. “We are even more excited to announce that the event will be hosted by the Government of Ekiti State, Nigeria at the soon to be commissioned Ikogosi Resorts which has been constructed to world-class standards by the GovernorFayemi administration.”
The Nigeria Symposium for Young & Emerging Leaders, a platform leading from The Future Awards is the next stage of its involvement in building a new generation of leaders: creating a critical mass of new leaders who are already blazing a trail and managing systems – including business and political leaders, media leaders, thought leaders, civil society and public service leaders.
The first edition of the Symposium held in Lagos on March 19 and 20 2012. The Headline Speaker was then Vice-President of the World Bank, Dr. Obiageli Ezekwesili and its Host was Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, who was Minister of Youth Development.
“We are delighted to host this platform in 2013 – in the Land of Honour Ekiti State, Nigeria,” said the Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. “Ekiti has always led the charge for democratic values, and good governance in the country, and we are passionate about sharing those lessons that we have learnt with the next generation of national leaders.
“We are also proud to host The Nigeria Symposium for
Young &.
This year’s Symposium is focused on Nigeria’s next general elections – and young people effectively engaging the process across board, from business to politics and civil society.
To register, please go to
The Nigeria Symposium for Young & Emerging Leaders is presented by The Future Project, in partnership with EnoughisEnough Nigeria and with support from the Nigeria Leadership Initiative. Media partners are Channels Television, Silverbird TV, LASAA and Cool FM. Official media partner is Y!/YNaija.com.
More information is available on.
2 comment(s):