This post collates all relevant information about Samsung Galaxy Note in the Philippines. This post will be updated as soon as more information on the smartphone gets released by Samsung Philippines.
Update as of November 11, 2011:
The official SRP of Samsung Galaxy Note in the Philippines is Php 35,990 and the official release date is on November 19, 2011.
Now, THIS is what you call a smartphone:
According to Samsung Electronics, Samsung Galaxy Note is a new category of product, developed through the Korean company's deep consumer understanding and insight. This massive handset "combines the core on-the-go benefits of various mobile device while maintaining smartphone portability", to create and introduce a fresh user experience.
"The huge, 5.3-inch," shares JK Shin, President and Head of Samsung's Mobile Communications Business
The main selling points of Samsung Galaxy Note are obviously its extra-ordinarily big display and stylus support but it also comes with other top of the line specs and multimedia features users will surely like. The phone, which runs Android 2.3 Gingerbread with its dual core 1.4 GHz processor, features a Full HD 1080p video recorder, an 8 MegaPixel camera at the back and a 2MP shooter in front. Ports on board include microUSB 2.0 (MHL) and 3.5mm audio jack; USB-on-the-go is likewise supported. As for connectivity, you can connect via Wifi, Bluetooth or 3G.
Release date will be sometime within this year -- I'm guessing by around Yuletide. No word from Samsung yet as regards price tag; My guesstimate though is around Php 35,000.
TP Thoughts:
I've never really been a fan of using stylus on a touchscreen phone. As it is, I have horrible penmanship when using pen on paper and using stylus on screen never helped really. Then again, that was on a resistive touchscreen from almost an era ago. Maybe my stylus handwriting will look a tad better on today's capacitive slate.
I think Samsung Galaxy Note is a landmark device that will surely set the template for future devices in its unique category. Like what Samsung said, it's a product of insight and innovation and I think it effectively answers a need of a consumer group.
From the looks of it, Samsung Galaxy Note will enter the market with a premium price tag that only professionals and business users can easily afford, which is sad because this type of device is totally ideal for students who always need to write down notes in class. That said, I hope Samsung can release a more affordable version of Samsung Galaxy Note in the future.
And while we're waiting for that one, in true TP fashion, here's Samsung Galaxy Note's complete technical specifications table: