Excelsior Correspondent
JAMMU, Mar 14: Dogra Swabhimaan Sangthan (DSS) president and former Member Parliament, Ch Lal Singh today formally launched his election campaign for Kathua-Udhampur- Doda Lok Sabha constituency along with a large number of DSS workers in a big cavalcade from Kootah village of tehsil Hiranagar.
Lal Singh chose to start his election campaign from the place where the seeds of the Dogra Swabhimaan Sangathan were sown. The seeds have grown into a full fledged tree and the time is ripe to come together and strengthen it by lending vote and support to the DSS in the forthcoming General elections. Former MP urged the people of Jammu province to give a befitting reply to the Kashmir centric politicians and their associates in Jammu who were responsible in maligning the image of Dogras.
Addressing the large gathering Lal Singh lambasted the self styled leadership of Jammu who always sold the interest of Jammu for the political consideration and the present leadership both in Jammu and in New Delhi has broken all records. He said the Sangathan in his relentless strive to get CBI probe ordered in Rassana gang rape and murder case of an innocent nomadic girl child and to get her justice, would continue struggle and is getting more and more public support on the issue.
Lal Singh stressed upon the need to have CBI probe to restore confidence of the general public of Jammu region. He explained the need for the CBI probe because of four different agencies having been used to investigate this case and finally a fabricated case challaned in the court. He stated that the fourth agency was sent from Srinagar Crime Branch with a clear cut mandate of making it a hate crime and tarnishing the image of Dogra community and their revered places of worship.
Lal Singh claimed that he would continue to strive for CBI probe and take the agitation to a logical conclusion, because it is a question mark on secularism in Jammu and image of Dogras.
Ex-MLA Kanta Andotra dressing the gathering said that her whole family is dedicated to the cause of Jammu and she was sure that the people of Jammu shall value the sentiments of families who have denied justice.
Editorial
Christchurch terror attack
Sub-standard medicines
Veto by China won’t bail out terrorist Azhar
Launch of Kartarpur corridor
Why sub-standard flour supplied to consumers?
Shun ad hoc arrangements as an administrative policy