The Sun journeys through Sagittarius until the Winter Solstice which is December 21st this year. Sagittarius is the straight-shooting adventurer of the zodiac whose search for Truth is the ultimate life quest. Here’s a quick look at the major transits occurring in the coming month.
The Moon
The New Moon in Sagittarius is Tuesday, November 29th, with a Full Moon in Gemini on December 13th. The New Moon encourages us to branch out, explore new realms. The Full Moon looks for balance between the very close and the very far. Look to the houses of your chart involved at the Full Moon to learn where this balance is needed.
Mercury
The messenger planet conjuncts Saturn at 16°54 Sagittarius on November 23rd. It’s time to get down to business and put our thinking caps on. This might be considered a very somber connection, but in Sagittarius there is still some room for humor~ just not at someone else’s expense. Honing up on religion, philosophy, and foreign affairs is on Mercury’s agenda.
Mercury moves into Capricorn on December 2nd. He’s had practice with the recent conjunction to Saturn, but the humor is replaced with very, very serious thinking. You’ve got to be sharp to work with this one. Strategy counts as does paying VERY close attention.
If you’re looking for a more spiritual connection, the serious Capricorn Mercury sextiles Neptune in Pisces on December 10th. Events may conspire to build or rebuild faith. Comfort can come from knowing that even in a sometimes too real world, we are able to hear to the music of the spheres and the voices of angels.
Mercury turns stationary retrograde at 15°08 Capricorn on December 19th. Use this time to delve into matters concerning the house in your chart that Mercury is transiting. If anything is brought to your attention during the retrograde — IF — it is likely to be associated with the house or houses Mercury retrogrades through. I always caution against retrograde fever. Your biggest retrograde surprise may be that nothing happens. Mercury will retrograde back to 28°51 Sagittarius before turning direct on January 8, 2017.
Retrogrades freak you out? Order a retrograde report for 2017.
Venus
Venus conjuncts Pluto at 15°43 Capricorn on November 25th. Did someone mention obsession? As long as our eye is on the right prize, this is one hot number.
She also squares Jupiter at 15°43 Libra on the 25th so she may go a bit overboard in her exhilaration for whatever she is drawing you toward. More isn’t always better.
Venus moves into Aquarius on December 7th. She gotten tired of those old shoes (who cares if they’re Gucci?) and wants something a little on the crazy side. She’s able to mix plaids and florals with an innovative flair that makes her an absolute genius. Experiment!
Mars
Mars at 17°01 Aquarius trines Jupiter in Libra on December 1st giving us a boost of physical energy to apply to all things Aquarian. New and unusual ventures and approaches to older projects or pursuits is plugged directly into the electrical socket. Feel the surge.
On December 3, Mars at 18°02 Aquarius moves into a sextile with Saturn in Sagittarius. Instead of flash-frying in a wok, we’re using the slow-cooker. In the tortoise and the hare story, this is the tortoise.
Mars gets another boost from a sextile to Uranus at 20°46 Aries on December 6. Use it for innovation and putting a new spin on things. Sextiles are easy aspects so there is always a possibility of slipping into the rebellious teenager role. This is nice energy to tap into to take a metaphysical drink from the fountain of youth.
Mars enters Pisces on December 19th. Known as Ares in Greek mythology, he was a real nuisance. They weren’t especially fond of him. The Romans who knew him as Mars held him in a better light. He was not just a warrior. He was a hero, a romantic and passionate lover, and a skilled dancer. Here is the virtue of Mars in Pisces.
Jupiter
Jupiter at 15°46 Libra squares the seemingly endless placement of Pluto in Capricorn on November 24th. An overestimation of personal power can get us into deep trouble if we continue to push too hard. Bank on Libra’s qualities of balance and harmony instead of the push-comes-to-shove power play of Jupiter and Pluto. Breathe. Stay calm, and definitely pick your battles.
Saturn
Saturn moves from 16-20° while in Sagittarius. Trines and sextiles to these degrees adds endurance and sustainability. Challenges through squares and oppositions are markers for change and adaptation to create reliability and practicality.
The Outer Planets
- Uranus continues in retrograde motion over 20-21 Aries.
- Neptune turned direct at 9° Pisces and stays put at that degree while the Sun transits Sagittarius.
- Pluto is a very active player in Capricorn at 15-16°.