Here are some of today's top headlines from around the area, including a Super Bowl tweet from an Akron company that angered Browns fans, a Summit County response plan for dangerous and wild animal escapes and a major downsize at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport.
UNITED AIRLINES: United Airlines announced to its Cleveland employees Saturday that it plans to drastically downsize it's operation at Cleveland Hopkins International Airport due to lost profits, according to The Plain Dealer. The airline said it will cut around 60 percent of its flights, and 430 airport operations and 40 catering jobs will be lost, as well as affecting TSA, ticketing and ground crew jobs. The downsize will begin in April and will continue incrementally into June. Click here to read more at Cleveland.com.
TWINSBURG ACCIDENT: A 64-year-old Twinsburg resident was killed after being struck by a vehicle on Interstate 480 while changing a tire Sunday, according to the Twinsburg Bulletin. Lester D. Mitchell was changing a tire alongside the westbound lane between Northfield and Warrensville Center Road just before 3:30 p.m. The driver of the second vehicle stopped following the the collision and has not been charged, and an investigation is ongoing. Click here to read more at TwinsburgBulletin.com.
WILD ANIMAL RESPONSE TEAM: The Summit County Dangerous Wild Animal Response Team (DWART) is presenting its state-mandated wild animal safety plan to Summit County Council today, according to the Akron Beacon Journal. Each of Ohio's 88 counties was ordered to form response teams last March in response to the the October 2011 incident in Zanesville, when 56 animals were set loose from an exotic animal farm and nearly all were killed by local authorities. The plan includes protocols for reacting to an emergency and a list of about 200 animals in and around Summit County, including those in Portage. Click here to read more at Ohio.com.
MUNROE FALLS: After three unsuccessful attempts to fill the vacant at-large Munroe Falls City Council seat, Mayor Frank Larson announced Monday that he has chosen former Councilor Sam Busic, according to the Stow Sentry. Busic was one of the 12 city residents who applied to fill the seat, and council voted three times on the nominated Busic, Summit County Planning Commission member Alan Mavrides and former City Councilor Ron Meyer, but none received the minimum votes needed. The choice went to Larson after the Council failed to fill the seat by Jan. 31. Click here to read more at StowSentry.com.
CLEVELAND SHOOTING: Geoffrey Gurkovich, the Cleveland man who allegedly shot and killed 5-year-old Jermani Brooks last month, was indicted on 18 charges by a grand jury Friday, according to The Plain Dealer. Gurkovich, 32, allegedly shot both Jermani and her mother, 33-year-old Noni Brooks, in the head on Jan. 19 while they sat in a parked car on Crossburn Avenue in Cleveland. Charges include aggravated murder, attempted murder and felonious assault and is scheduled to be arraigned Wednesday. Click here to read more at Cleveland.com.
SUPER BOWL: Akron-based company GOJO issued an apology Monday following backlash from Browns fans regarding a Super Bowl tweet by their PURELL product's Twitter account, according to the Akron Beacon Journal. The tweet — which was later deleted — read "The #Broncos could use a @PURELL refresh moment, because right now they look like the Cleveland Browns." A follow-up apology tweet also was later deleted, and GOJO spokeswoman Samantha Williams said she could not release whether the person responsible for the tweet was fired. Click here to read more at Ohio.com.
sign out Welcome,
(edit)