Review
Nickelodeon all-star brawl combines all possible characters that have ever appeared in the channel’s cartoons. The main idea is fighting.
Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl Review
You should smash one another, use diverse techniques in different locations. There is always a chance to win, even if things go sideways. You can download Nickeloden all-star brawl on your PC, ps4, ps5, or Xbox.
Graphics
Developers focused mostly on the idea of the game, so graphics are quite usual for 2D animation. They are vibrant and dynamic but lack details. Characters are drawn in the same style, so even if they are from different cartoons, they will look quite similar. However, the colors are bright and pleasant. The movements change really quickly what makes the whole process fun and enjoyable.
Replayability
Nickelodeon all-star brawl has various characters, and you may play it for hours. It’s great for several minutes breaks and kids will like it too. However, it doesn’t have any level progression, and locations are generic, which lowers the replayability rating. This is a type of game which you can play for a long time, forget about it abruptly, and return to it several months later. It has an avarage replayability level among other free games of this genre.
Gameplay
As written above, this game is based on combats between diverse Nickelodeon characters. It has various locations where you can play face to face or together with many players. There are no levels. You may get some items as gifts but they don’t play a big role in your fighting development. Playing Nickeloden all-star brawl is not very convenient on Xbox. You should use diverse buttons combinations, which is easier to do with a joystick. So, Nickelodeon all-star brawl for Xbox is a better choice. It’s quite easy to control characters, and they move extremely fast for a 2D game like this.
Some players note that even though the game was created with Nickeloden in mind, the atmosphere there is not like cartoons have. There is a lack of music and some characters look a little differently than in movies. But some fans are all steamed up about the game. Overall, you may install Nickelodeon all-star brawl because it’s very funny and allows you to try various characters in combats.
Conclusion
The game is nice and perfect for those who like Nickelodeon cartoons. Even if you have never watched any of them, you can enjoy this game because of the high-level motion gameplay and variety of characters. This is not the game where you can develop your character and gain some levels. Here you can just download Nickelodeon all-star brawl relax and get fun.
Pros:
- Dynamic and vibrant
- A lot of characters
- Has many locations.
Cons:
- No level progression
- Low-level graphics.
How much storage do you need?
