Welcome to Lineage 2 Online
Lineage 2 Online is a totally dedicated information library fan site for Lineage 2, the Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game (MMORPG) from NCSoft.
Lineage 2 is the highly anticipated sequel for Lineage, the largest MMORPG in the world. The sequel has the the most beautiful graphics ever seen and the environment is detailed and vast. Some of the features of Lineage 2 are:
- 5 races and over 20 classes to choose from.
- Class advancement and specialization.
- Realistic and advanced graphics engine, using the Unreal game engine.
- No zoning, one big world.
- Castle sieges, large intense battles for power.
- Political and Economic systems.
- Easy to learn interface and gameplay.
- Clan housing and Castles.
L, Final Fantasy XI, City of Heroes / City of Villains, Everquest!
Lineage 2 Ads
Cheap Lineage 2 Adena
Buy Cheap L2 Adena, 24/7 Instant Delivery and Customer Service - Lewt.com
L2 Cheats, Guides, Exploits
All the latest walkthroughs, guides, exploits, cheats and more for L2 - Skryer.com
Buy L2 Gold
Buy the best Lineage 2 Adena at the best prices, 24/7 Delivery, Live Chat - Lewt.com
Lineage 2 Cheats & Lineage 2 Exploits
The best cheats, exploits, guides, walkthroughs, hints tips and more for L2 - Skryer.com
Announcement: More Database features to comeposted Sunday, February 20, 2005 20:07 PM EST (
We are working on more database features like item search, and commenting which should add a whole new dimension to our Lineage 2 Database.
Announcement: Database in the worksposted Monday, November 22, 2004 5:34 AM EST (
If you notice, on our left menu you'll find a database of items, monsters, npc's and quests in Lineage 2. We're working on adding more content, so please feel free to browse through them and watch out for tons of great features soon.
Announcement: The Guide Contest Winners!posted Tuesday, September 28, 2004 22:49 PM EDT (
Finally they're here! The winners of our Lineage 2 Guide Contest are now up for viewing on the site, go and read them and you'll probably learn something you never knew. Now announcing the winners:
1st Place - Dark Elf Guide by XelsynnaCongratulations to all the winners and thank you to all that sent in entries, we have put some of the other non-winning entries up also for everyone to read. Remember if you want your guide posted here at Lineage 2 Online, just Submit it to us!
2nd Place - Elven Mystic Guide by Hyper_Monkey20
3rd Place - Guide Against Scams by Zmokin
L2 Lineage 2 News
The Great Mouse Hunt- September 16, 2008
The Dread Pirate Zaken is at it again, but this time the unfortunate souls who evoked his wrath were his very own crew. When Zaken found out they were secretly pilfering some of his booty, he turned them all into mice! Zaken's granddaughter, Bonny, is trying to set things right once more and needs your aid to lift the curse from Zaken's crew.Check out the full details here!
Lineage II Lookalike Contest- September 4, 2008
Do you think you bear a striking resemblance to your Lineage速 II character? We want to hear from you! Grab a camera because now's your time to shine in the Lineage速 II Lookalike Contest! Send us a screenshot of a Lineage速 II monster, NPC, or your character alongside a photo of you for a chance to win some fabulous Lineage速 II prizes! Check out the full details here!
Updating to Gracia - Part 1- August 12, 2008
Welcome.
Gracia - Part 1 Launch- August 6, 2008
The!
MMOFury - Interview with Lineage II Producer Tim Tan- August 4, 2008
The MMOFury staff recently had a change to sit down and chat with North American/European Lineage II Producer, Tim Tan and ask him a few candid questions about the recent Hellbound update, pet system changes, and the upcoming Gracia update. Check out the full interview here!
News from the Lineage 2 Homepage
Want to buy Lineage 2 Adena at real cheap prices, Lewt is the only trusted place to buy.