Flexibility, advanced logistic solutions and high quality of services
La Petrolifera Italo Rumena (PIR) operates, as bonded warehouse in Porto Corsini Ravenna, storage and handling activities of chemicals, petrochemicals, oil, biofuels, food grade products, liquids and solids, in bulk and packaged.
PIR is located next to the port of Ravenna entrance (first industrial installation), just 30 minutes sailing from the road, covers an area of about 335,000 sqm (40,000 available for expansion) for a total storage capacity of 292,625 cbm for liquids and of 15,400 sqm warehouses for the storage of solids.
The terminal facilities are served by 4 mooring points (2 jetties and 2 berths) and 38 loading bays of which 36 for road tank trucks and 2 for rail tank cars. Always focused on serving its customers at highest international standards, PIR obtained quality certifications ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001, CDI-T and AEO.
To assure the speedy and easy handling of all operations, PIR offers large areas for parking and manoeuvring for road tank trucks as well as for rail tank cars, assistance for Customs formalities and an effective on line service for the monitoring of the goods.
Terminal PIR 279
The area where terminal PIR 279 is located, is the original site of PIR activities back in the 20s. Today the terminal has forefront facilities and a storage capacity of 95,460 cbm Once dedicated to oil products only, the terminal has been upgraded for the handling and storage of chemicals and petrochemicals with dedicated lines and a vapours treatment facility.
The terminal operates also a drumming line and a warehouse for lube oils and other packaged specialties.
Terminal PIR 260
Terminal PIR 260 has been designed and built to meet the demand for chemicals and petrochemicals storage coming from Italian chemical industry. The terminal has been constantly enlarged and modernized and today PIR customers can access highly flexible facilities allowing the storage of a wide range of products on the 107,360 cbm available.
The terminal can be easily reached via sea, road, rail and has an authorization to build a storage terminal for isotanks also ADR.
Terminal PIR 259 Magazzini Generali
PIR 259 is an independent division of La Petrolifera Italo Rumena, and operates a bonded warehouse to provide independent services for the storage, handling and bagging of dry goods.
The terminal manages also tanks certified for the storage and handling of food-grade liquids, including low flash point and non-flammable chemicals. PIR 259 has exclusive use of a berth for vessels loading/unloading of both liquid and solid products. Among other facilities, the terminal operates a bag filling unit (bags from 25 to 75 Kg) with conveyor equipment to a ship loader on the quay with capacity of over 2,000 sacks per hour.
Large yards and various-size warehouses assure an easy and flexible handling of all sorts of goods with opportunities to perform preliminary treatment of goods on site.
Terminal PIR 257
The Terminal PIR 257, with its 77,200 cbm of storage capacity operates as oil depot with an high specialization and automation for biofuels, vegoils, diesel and glycerine.
It is connected to a biodiesel production plant and to a vegetable oil production facility via pipeline. The Terminal PIR 257 has sea, road and rail access.