AT times, the large back room at Café Grumpy in Greenpoint,
When Café Grumpy’s owners, Caroline Bell and Chris Timbrell, decided to open a third location, in Park Slope, last year, they built a solution to the laptop problem right into the design. The furniture consists of a counter in the back and a chest-high table in the front. A bench outside is for lingering.
Name aside, this Café Grumpy is not a cafe. It is, unmistakably, a
“I don’t think I’d ever do a bigger space with tables and chairs again,” Ms. Bell said. “I appreciate the idea of when you go someplace and it feels like a home away from home, but I don’t think it should be a home office away from home.”.
Coffee-bar owners say that while space and rent can be considerations, they’re installing counters because they create a lively environment where it’s easy to have a quick, convivial exchange. “There’s clearly a philosophy behind the coffee bar,” said Christian Geckeler, who describes his ongoing odyssey to taste the country’s best coffee on
Mr. Geckeler has encountered coffee bars as varied as Barismo, in Arlington, Mass.; Broadway Café in
“It’s really lovely,” Mr. Geckeler said. “You have a couple of bar stools and the baristas are right there, so the conversation just naturally happens.”
The conversation seems to happen over shorter drinks like espresso and coffee brewed by the cup. A four-ounce cortado is a pleasant drink at a bar stool. A 20-ounce latte demands a chair.
A major inspiration for the new coffee bars is
“I spent a semester in Rome when I was in college, and coffee there is: you come in, you pay, you get it, you drink it, you slam it and you’re out the door,” said Matthew Schnepf, an architect, who meets Brian Crooks, a designer, once a week or so at the narrow bar inside Stumptown Coffee Roasters at the
“It feels less suburban and more urban,” Mr. Crooks said. Indeed, the Ace Hotel Stumptown gets so much traffic that it has become one of the busiest coffee stores in the city..
But the new order has its discontents. A reviewer on
Despite these complaints, the design of many new coffee bars betrays a great deal of thought. The richly grained black-walnut counters of Caffetteria, a coffee bar that opened in SoHo in June, were milled from a single tree in upstate New York. The owners, Bryan Waites and Aaron Nice, outfitted the spare and elegant room with state-of-the-art equipment — including a rare pair of slow drippers from
“Tables create a feeling of territorialism,” Mr. Waites said. “There’s nothing wrong with it, it’s just not what we’re shooting to offer.”
Coffee shops weren’t always workplaces. The first
The spread of coffeehouses coincided with the rise of the portable office, as growing numbers of people conducted their working lives with a laptop and wireless signal. By the early 1990s, Starbucks locations were averaging 1,600 square feet and offering a range of pastries, sandwiches and other food.
Some coffee-bar owners say their tiny spaces and lower rents allow them to concentrate on what they do best. When Stumptown Coffee Roasters opens its second New York coffee bar next month, in Red Hook, Brooklyn, baristas there will be focused on brewed coffee to the exclusion of almost everything else, including espresso (see accompanying article). They would not have time — or space — to master six kinds of brewing gear, plus iced coffee, if they had to grill panini, too.
“If you’re a proprietor and you’re paying those rents, you need to augment your coffee with other products,” said Kevin Cuddeback, the owner of Gimme! Coffee. “Just try to be as good with sandwiches and soups as you are with espresso.” The third
Some proprietors are hedging their bets. When Starbucks overhauled its location on Spring Street in SoHo in April, it installed a wooden counter and a coffee bar with a few stools, in addition to the expected tables and chairs.
Kate Sebbah, a fashion stylist who was enjoying a leisurely latte at a table inside Ground Support in SoHo last week, said she never drinks at the counter. “I don’t find it relaxing,” she said. “With my job I go from place to place to place. This is a time to sit down, relax, compose my thoughts.”
According to Steven Sadoff, the owner, that is typical. “Espresso drinkers will go to the bar,” Mr. Sadoff said. “Pretty much everybody else sits.” Mr. Sadoff said he doesn’t mind when customers park in his establishment with a laptop. Except, that is, when he’s asked to provide tech support for the Wi-Fi.Continue reading the main story