Dinner Is Done And Announcements And Dancing Begins (Page Three)
(February 19th 2016 ) Last Updated: 09/11/2019 10:38:AM
Hear Ye... Hear Ye... You are now about to be pronounced upon!
The crowd goes silent
The staff keeps our "dancing fluids" at the appropriate level!
Working behinds the scenes... Great staff at the Petroleum Club!
Hearing the latest!
What is this man thinking?
Friends from Garden Grove Elks
Dance Dance Dance
Everybody up!
"Follow me!"
We are moving moving moving
Watch out... Here we come
Turn turn turn
"We look pretty good!"
All smiles
Wally and Ghislaine ... Always happy!
Love is in the air!
The officers are in a huddle
Our treasurer keeps tabs on everything!
You cannot hide from the camera!
The members are just getting warmed up!
"Dear... He found us again!"
Mike and Jan trip the light fantastic
REMEMBER... Do not let go!
Fun is being had by all!
Will was singing.... Well, he called it singing!
A gentle breeze was coming from their direction!
Did You Know? - Archaeological ruins and ancient texts show that the hand fan was used in ancient Greece at least since the 4th century BC and was known under the name rhipis (Greek: ῥιπίς)..
"Wally! Let try that new step!"
Awe.... Love abounds
Did You Know? - Madame Royale, daughter of Henry the IV of France, loved Valentine's Day so much that she named her palace "The Valentine.
"OK guys... I am up to seven, what's next??"
Did You Know? - Standard steps for gentleman and lady are identical.
1. Left heel touch forward
2. Left foot close to right foot
3. Right toe touch backward
4. Right foot scuff forward ending in low forward kick
5. Right heel touch forward
6. Right toe touch (toe down/heel up) forward and left of left foot
7. Right heel touch forward
8. Right foot close to left foot
9. Left heel touch forward
10. Left toe touch (toe down/heel up) forward and right of right foot
Must be fun!
Go Charlie and Sandy!
Margot and Pat have it down to a science
Margot is not even looking down!
We are going to try it!
"I can do it with my eyes closed!"
Coming around the corner
Jan and Paul hit the floor!
Sue gets a giggle out of this!
We checked earlier, Jan's medical insurance is paid up!
It's nearing bewitching hour so the floor fills up!
The joint is jumping!
Poof! Where did everyone go?
"We are getting ready to make tracks!
Did You Know? - don't want to go home... Let's dance some more!"
Off with the dancing shoes!
Good night all
