RENO, Nev. --.
It's a work out that can burn around 500 calories in just thirty minutes, which means if you have a free lunch hour, you can pop in, get a full body work out, take a shower and have just enough time to get back in the office.
"I have an elliptical in my living room for crying out loud that I don't get on." said Tammy Wadsworth, a kickboxing novice.
Like many other mothers, Tammy Wadsworth can barely fit time in her schedule to sleep, let alone work out.
"I'm a full-time working individual, I have a daughter and family and all those other commitments that come with being an adult and plenty of excuses for not going to the gym," she said.
When Wadsworth found 9Round Fitness & Kickboxing three months ago, she ran out of excuses.
'I didn't have to worry about making a 6 p.m, class or making a 5:30 p.m. class when I work late and it just gets me 30 minutes in and out," she said. "it kicks my butt."
A half an hour gets you through nine different workouts, each round lasting three minutes. Once the bell goes off, you're onto a new routine.
"Every day it changes so you get a fresh new work out every time you step into the place," said Matt Vidal, manager and head trainer at 9Round.
It's not a one-size-fits-all kind of class. Each round is tailored to your needs, which keep folks like Tammy Wadsworth coming back.
When I first started, I couldn't get through 9Rounds. I thought I was going to pass out, honestly."
Three months later, she's seeing results that keep her motivated.
"I'm seeing more definition, I'm seeing just increased energy and muscles. Clothes fit better, always a bonus."
Each class also guarantees a personal trainer right by your side to encourage and teach you new routines.
"It's a great cardio work out. Everybody that wants to lose the pounds, get rid of this get rid of that; it's all about cardio burning; it's not about getting big bulky muscle," Vidal said. "If you want a nice lean summer body, this is where you get it."
9Round Fitness and Kickboxing is located at 748 S Meadows Pkwy, Reno, NV 89521.
For more information and pricing, click on "Related Links."