Hi everyone! It’s been a week since my sad post, and since then things have been looking up! I’m so happy to be out of my blah mood and back to normal. Life in Alaska is much better when you’re in the mood to hike and run again! Since I had such a long list of bad things last week, I’ve decided to make another list dedicated to all the awesome things going on in my life right now:
- Nutella. I eat it out of the jar with a spoon when I’m craving chocolate. Does anyone else do that?
- Taking long, lazy float raft trips down the Kenai River with an apricot beer in hand and perfect warm weather. I could get used to this!
Yes, I know I have a half marathon this weekend. I only drank half!
We saw at least 50 bald eagles during the trip!
- Actually sticking to my goals that I made last week! Coffee, you have no power over me…
- My parents sending me treats from their vacation to Ocean City, Maryland. These are my favorite things to eat at the beach and my parents know it. They’re the best!
- The fact that I only work 2 days this week because of my upcoming half marathon. Running is much better than working!
- My new TOMS sailboat shoes that Andrew got me for my birthday! I wear them as much as possible! Here I am wearing them while hanging out on an old sailboat near the Salmon Bake.
- I saw a breeching humpback whale yesterday while taking a tour with our company. No pictures because I feel like an iPhone can’t even capture that kind of thing. But oh my god, it was amazing!!!!
- Low key hiking to beautiful lakes we didn’t know existed. Oh how I love Alaska!
- Having fabulous friends who always put me in a good mood. My husband is included in this as well :)
I think the fact that I changed my mindset on my half marathon has helped me totally turn my mood around this week. Of course I’m nervous – when am I not nervous about a race? – but I will get through it and make it as fun as possible. I’ve also started working on my resume and looking for jobs so I’m feeling a bit better about the future. Plus the weather was perfect for my days off and that’s always a plus! Today should be my last run before the race and I’m curious to see how it goes. I’m hoping for an easy, uneventful few miles to get me excited about the race. Wish me luck!
What fun things are putting you in a good mood this week? How do you like to eat Nutella?
Those TOMS are so cute!
I love Nutella- by the spoon, on sandwiches, on top of ice cream. I had it on crackers every day when I studied abroad. & last weekend I went to brunch & had it on top of a waffle. Best waffle ever :)
Good luck at your half this weekend!
Thanks! And oh my god, on top of ice cream? Why have I never thought of that!
YAY! So glad you are feeling better! This week my sweet dog Lilly is putting me in the best mood. She got groomed earlier this week and looks too cute. I can’t help but smile when I look at her :)
Awww adorable! Dogs are the best for putting me in a good mood :)
I am so glad that things are turning around for you! Those TOMS are adorable! And yeah, who doesn’t eat Nutella by the spoonful?
Thanks! And I thought I was weird for a second, but I’m glad other people do it too. I feel like it’s supposed to be a condiment and not the main dessert but I don’t care!
I put Nutella on apples. Makes me feel like its healthy :)
Haha there you go, that totally works! I might have to try that sometime!
I definitely eat it by the spoonful. I avoid eating it now because I have no self-control, but it’s definitely a pick me upper :) I can’t believe you saw that many bald eagles! That’s so amazing and good luck on your race
Yeah my self control with Nutella is pretty low. And yeah, the bald eagle situation is nuts right now! The salmon are running so all the rivers are lined with eagles trying to steal some!
Good luck on your upcoming race! Those pictures look beautiful! Oh how I need to make it back to Alaska for a trip!!!!
Yeah you do!
I do not eat nutella, but maybe I should? ;-) Your weeks sounds perfect! What beautiful places! This week running with a group of high school kids is putting me in a good mood. I wake up at 5 AM ish and wonder why I’m leaving my bed but by 6 AM I’m happy as a clam and by 7 I feel really accomplished and glad to have gone! Haha.This was a bounce back week for me too after being so sick last week. I wondered if I’d find my mojo again but…looks like I did. Good luck on your half!
Yes you should, you will get addicted and eat it constantly! So yummy! And I wish I had a group that awesome that I could run with. It sounds like fun!
Hooray for feeling happy! My favorite are Teddy Grams or animal crackers dipped in Nutella! yummm. Good luck in your race! Those TOMS are super cute : D
Oh I’ve done that with Annie’s graham cracker bunnies! It’s so good!
So many great things in one post!! Love your Toms, the scenery (Eagles and Whales), and nutella out of a jar…yes please! :D Glad you are feeling better! Have a fabulous weekend!
Thanks!
it seems so beautiful there!