About
CHECHIL BEER SNACK FINALLY IN THE US!
We are a group of cheese makers from New York that specialize in one kind of cheese - Chechil. What is Chechil? It is actually one of the most popular beer snacks in the world and now we want to be the first ones to start producing this delicious snack in the US.
What is Chechil? strings that are so thin that they can easily pass through an eye of a needle. Chechil is an all natural product with no chemicals or preservatives and it is very fibrous and healthy. The shelf life of Chechil is 3 months.
During my visits to Russia and Kazakhstan, I had the pleasure to enjoy Chechil in most restaurants and bars. The problem occurred to me when I arrived back to the US.....I could not find this snack anywhere in the US! We even went to Russian communities in Brooklyn to see if their local stores carry it but still were let down.
So my friend and I, have traveled to Kazakhstan last summer to specifically learn about this cheese. We visited 3 production plants there. This is also why we could not go to a dairy producer and ask them to make it for us. This is why we need your:
- Cheese Vat (30 gallon) - $9,500
- Fresh Milk - $7,500
- Equipment - $5,000
- FDA registration and paperwork - $3,000
- Labeling - $1000
- Shipping costs - $1000
Total = $27,000
Reward Levels Breakdown
Once we get funding from backers like you, we can start shipping this amazing snack for everyone to enjoy, and hopefully soon you will find us in a store or bar near you!
T-Shirt at $90 Reward Level
Let us know your size: Small, Medium, Large, or X-Large.
You will LOVE this amazing beer snack
Risks and challenges
We are all set up and ready to go but producing the first batch of Chechil cheese involves some extra equipment that is costly. We need your funding to help us raise money for this equipment and for lab testing as well. With your help we are confident that we can make this dream a reality and get this delicious snack on store shelves soon.Learn about accountability on Kickstarter
Questions about this project? Check out the FAQ
Support
Funding period
- (30 days)