HIPAA Auditor
Our clients—ranging from financial institutions to multinational corporations to government agencies—come to us for guidance when they’re operating in uncertain environments. In 2001, we developed the financial community’s first global political risk index to measure the ...
May 17 -
Orlando
Linux Administrator
LINUX Administrator Job Description Troubleshoot and resolve difficult production issues in a timely fashion. Monitor Unix servers, systems, environments, and services Build and Configure systems and services Install in-house, opensource, and vendor based software Write ...
May 11 -
Orlando
Mobility Engineer
90% REMOTE!!!
The Mobility Engineer’s role will be to support current mobility applications (BlackBerry, MobileIron, Lync, and other mobile productivity apps). The position will also entail the architecture and design of new mobile solution systems, support of the full ...
May 6 -
Orlando
HR Manager
HR Manager role in the East Orlando / UCF area.
Key Areas of Responsibility:
Needs to understand recruiting technical candidates "This was a huge part of their needed skills"
● Administrative functions related to HR locally
● Setting of recommended salary benchmarks to ...
May 1 -
Orlando
Linux Admin / Information Technology Specialist
CollaborateMD is looking for an influential and energetic leader whose personal values align with our company’s core values of Integrity, Respect, Loyalty, Passion, Accountability, and Innovation. This leader will work within our Enterprise Technology Solutions Department as ...
Apr 30 -
Orlando
Apr 27 -
Orlando
EPM Manager
EPM Manager
FULL TIME ROLE
The EPM Manager is responsible for leading the deployment and support of the electronic practice management for employed physician offices. The EPM Manager will need a strong knowledge base in medical coding requirements, documentation compliance ...
Apr 23 -
Altamonte Springs
Telephony System Administrator
Hello,
Duration: 6 Months
We are hiring for the below role:
The System Administrator is an experienced contact center telephony expert. This individual is team oriented and a strong communicator. They work closely with clients and other technology groups on a daily basis. ...
Apr ...
Apr 8 -
Orlando
IT Technician
We are one of the largest property management & investment firms in the country. With a mission to provide the most superior service to our investors and clients we are seeking a well experienced and dynamic individual to lead our IT department. We have over 3000 employees ...
Apr 7 -
Orlando
SQL Database Engineer
Global 1000 companies in a wide range of industries trust Everest Group to advise them on all aspects of their high impact needs. As one of our professionals, you will help our clients evaluate and transform their businesses to adapt in a continually changing business ...
Apr 1 -
Orlando
Security Analyst/Auditor
Drawing upon the extensive regional and functional expertise of Eurasia Group's analysts, the Government Services group delivers innovative products and mission-focused analysis to agencies operating in today's dynamic and unpredictable geopolitical landscape. From ...
IT Network Administrator
Description
The IT Network Administrator is responsible for providing proactive management of all IT systems as well as IT support to HCR employees. The IT Network Administrator provides technical advice and support to system users, and also performs the installation, ...
Mar 27 -
Winter Park
We'll be sending text message alerts for your subscription to