COSTA RICA PROPERTY SEARCH
Selling Costa Rica Real Estate with Re/Max
Selling Costa Rica Property - Why Choose Re/Max?
When you choose a RE/MAX Costa Rica sales agent to sell your real estate, you'll experience the highest quality of marketing and service in the country. Our Tamarindo real estate team boasts an exceptional reputation and over 10 years experience. Our office is strategically located on Tamarindo's main street to maximize walk-in traffic, and we do more web and print marketing than any other agency in the area. We also have two sister offices in the very popular Papagayo area: RE/MAX Tres Amigos Hermosa and RE/MAX Prestige Properties Panama. Our Costa Rica real estate team is the largest in the country under single ownership so we are able to market and tour your property with clients staying all along the Guanacaste's famous Gold Coast.
RE/MAX agents are Costa Rica property experts. They are the most knowledgeable agents, with the experience and community connections to assist you in the selling process. We live and work in our respective areas, so can share first hand knowledge about the community and lifestyle with potential buyers. RE/MAX agents have the experience to get the job done in today's market. That's why no one in the world sells more real estate than RE/MAX.
Global Referral Network
No other real estate company can offer your Costa Rica home more exposure. Our international referral network includes offices in more than 80 countries worldwide and more than 90,000 agents. The power of the RE/MAX name boosts business and attracts homebuyers.
Home of the Best Agents®
At RE/MAX, professionalism and education are a priority. Our RE/MAX Associates belong to national and international associations and boast a variety of designations including the Costa Rica Guanacaste Association of Realtors (CRGAR), Costa Rica Board of Realtors (CCBR), National Assocation of Realtors (NAR) and Certified International Property Specialist (CIPS). homebuyers and sellers will be an industry leader. RE/MAX is that leader. Thanks to its global network and stellar reputation, it's no wonder people turn to RE/MAX when selling Costa Rica real estate. with our RE/MAX agents including multiple websites, print advertising, and three offices in locations stategically chosen to maximize walk-in traffic combined with international television advertising and broad Internet exposure, inspires buyers to seek out RE/MAX agents. You can be sure that when When you list your Costa Rica property with a RE/MAX agent, it will receive wide exposure.
Premier Market Presence®
RE/MAX is the international agents providing superior customer service under an internationally recognized.
Customer Satisfaction
The proof of quality service is in repeat clients and in clients who refer RE/MAX to friends and family. RE/MAX Sales Associates typically generate a large percentage of their business from past customers and referrals.