- Huxster's New Self Titled Album OUT NOW!!
Long awaited third album is finally here!! Currently available through iTunes Amazon and CD Baby
Huxster In The news!!
Great new articles from Jay Miller of the The Patriot Ledger and Georgia Sparling of Sippican Week
- Another New Track Posted!
Huxster is excited to preview a second song - "Guns n' Roses" from the upcoming self titled third album!
- New Track From The Upcoming 10 Song Studio Record
"I'll Find A Way" has just been added to the Music Player. Give it a listen!
- Huxster's Third Record Will Be Released This Summer
Recording has been completed and mixing will begin very soon! The record will consist of ten new songs, several songs have been played at live shows last fall.
We hope to post one or two new songs for streaming on this site very soon!
- Huxster's Music Catalog Available For Stream or Download - FREE!
Please visit the Bandcamp page to stream or download. You’ll find a link to Bandcamp on the menu bar. No info required! Enjoy!!
- Huxster (Late) Winter Update
It's been a long, cold, lonely winter! However, we've continued to work really hard on the new record and we're super close to completing the tracking and turn it over to Paul Hagar to be mixed!
We're so itching for warmer tempertures and getting out there to play some shows! We hope to be posting some live show dates very soon!
Cheers!
- Huxster's New Record Is Underway!
Hey, so we had a fantastic time recording drums, bass & guitars at Powerstation NE in CT. What a beautiful facility and cool people! We got several takes of ten new songs recorded and over the course of Nov & Dec we'll be putting down the final touches - vocals, more guitar, etc.
Check out our new Blog (link above). Joe Patten has created a sweet page which will document our recording process. New shows will be posted soon!
- The Date Has Been Set To Begin Recording The Third Full Length Huxster Record!
We’ll begin recording in just a few days at Power Station NE in CT. We’ll be there October 28th & 29th to nail down the drums and whatever else we can in that time. The remaining tracks will be recorded at Engine #5 (aka Huxster Headquarters).
We’ll be working with our good friend Paul Hagar, who will engineer the project. Paul is an LA based sound engineer who has worked on some great sounding studio projects over the years. We know he’s gonna help us get some great sounds.
This Saturday night, 10/26 may be the final show of the year. We're playing a 75 minute set at The New World Tavern in Plymouth, MA. The set will include every song from the up coming new album, some older songs and a few surprise cover tunes.
- HUXSTER'S Third Full Length Record Has Been Written!
So, we've recently been playing some shows, and playing only the ten new songs which will become our yet to be recorded new record! This has been really fun and we'll continue to do this for all upcoming shows.
Two of the new songs - "I'll Find A Way" and "Four Words" can be heard in a stripped down form on our recently released acoustic EP "Bourbon Stomp".
To hear the new record in it's entirety, please come out to a live show! We'll have more dates posted soon. We hope to begin recording in October and we may post some video of the process.
Take care,
Paul, Dave & Joe
3/13
This past year, while writing and performing a brand new batch of songs, we decided to record some new and old songs with a sorta laidback vibe. We had played a bunch of acoustic shows over the past couple of years and wanted to record a little low-fi (ish) version of a few songs.
To stream or download the EP, click on the Bandcamp link from the menu.
A brand new full length is underway!! We're excited about the new songs and can't wait to get them recorded and play them at our live shows!
- H. [Read More...]