At a Glance... Credits per course: 4 Classroom hours per week: 3 Required weekly lab hours: 1
RUSS-101 Elementary Russian
Work with a master tutor in this small-group setting to begin your language journey in the listening, speaking, writing, and reading skills of Russian. After taking this course, students will be able to utilize the basic elements of the Russian language: reading Russian with acceptable pronunciation, writing Russian words and phrases in script, speaking Russian — making statements and answering simple Russian statements. Throughout these experiences, the student will apply their knowledge of cases, conjugations, and declensions to form Russian sentences. Instruction focuses on oral communication and is supported by a computerized classroom and conversation specialists.
RUSS-102 Elementary Russian II
Broaden the scope of your language skill set as a student of Russian as your second language. This course is a continuation of first-semester Russian. Upon completion, the student will be able to use Russian when speaking about everyday topics and will have gained the ability to read and understand texts of average difficulty. Primary concentration will be placed on speaking in complete sentences and on grammatical usage, especially compound sentences, adjectives, and cases. Instruction focuses on oral communication and is supported by a computerized classroom and conversation specialists. Cultivate your conversation skills with a native speaker.
RUSS-201 Intermediate Russian I
In this first, intermediate level course, students continue to refine their Russian writing skills, develop the ability to read and understand sentence-level text, explore Russian verb roots, study additional tense, present, and future tenses, practice dialogue exercises, increase their working vocabulary, and learn more in-depth grammar. Students will continue to increase their proficiency in the Russian script and sound system, study more grammatical concepts, practice their reading, and expand their knowledge of Russian culture.
RUSS-202 Intermediate Russian II
Work with an instructor on developing reading and writing skills critical for being completely bilingual in Russian.