I feel compelled to do this. Why? Because I don't want to start working on a new sign right now.
I got this at A Yank Gone South. Go read it, won't you?
The Rules:
1. Link to the person that tagged you, and post the rules on your blog.
2. Share 7 random/weird facts about yourself .
3. Tag 7 random people at the end of your post and include links to their blogs. --Yeah, I'm not going to do this, but feel free to paste and post it if you want. I'm a rebel.
RANDOM KELLY STUFF
1) I get very irritated when unimportant things begin to get complicated. I like things to be decided on and then carried out. I Can. Not. Stand. to sit around and listen to people waffle about what needs to be done when easy answers are the best answers. This is not to say I am particular about what the answers are, I just want the answer to be decided on without undue talkage about them. If I have an opinion about something, you're gonna dang well hear it, but I'm easy going enough to go along with anything most of the time. If you start making a big deal about whatever it is, I'm going to start wanting to harm you emotionally. : )
2) I have a whole lot of friends, but only a few close ones. I kind of like it that way. It's not that I'm against making new friends or meeting new people, but good friends -really good ones, the kind you want to hang out with and tell secrets to- have to click. I really hate it when I'm told I "need" to meet more people so I can go out and do stuff more often. If I don't feel that specific click with a person, I'm ok not being their best buddy and am usually uncomfortable hanging out with them. I can do it, and I will, but I'm probably going to end up acting weird and awkward. My circle may be small, but it's quality. At least I believe it is. It's also not exclusive to anyone who isn't already there, so please don't think I'm a snob for feeling the way I do. This is probably going to sound cheesy, but finding a really close friend is like finding a piece of your inner puzzle. You know when you meet them. Did any of that make sense?
3) I HAVE to push the cart when I go to the grocery store. I don't know why. I won't let Steve touch it if he's with me. It gives me a sense of control in an otherwise crazy world, I guess!
4) I can perform in front of really large crowds with no problem. Small crowds unnerve me. I have sung in front of crowds as large as 2,000 and did a fine job. I sang for a group of 12 and sounded like there was an earthquake going on inside of me.
5) In a similar vein, one of my most guilty pleasures is to go to those booths where you can record your own CDs and make one. I don't always sound very good, and I very rarely let anyone hear the results, but I love to do it, and have spent way too much time and money on them.
6) I buy evening gowns for no reason what so ever. I don't spend a lot on them, but if I find one I like on clearance and I can afford it, I will buy it. At last count I had 5 or 6. Maybe I'm just hoping I will get a chance to wear one someday! I'm an optimist.
7) I wish I could dance. Really dance. Not the kind you do at your prom and corporate Christmas parties, but dance. Tango, waltz, rhumba...all of that stuff. Someday I'm determined to learn.