Residents have marked the anniversary of a wall falling down...with a special birthday party.
Holbrook villagers held a celebration for St Michael's Church wall, in Port Way, which came down on March 12, 2018 after severe weather conditons.
Cheryl Brew said the special event was attended by around 30 people in which they all sang Happy Birthday to the wall to mark the occasion.
The 55-year-old landlady of the Spotted Cow, in Holbrook, who organised the party, decided to put it on to "highlight a serious issue" in the village.
She said: "The wall came down a year ago and nothing has been changed, not one brick has been moved since.
"The church and Derbyshire County Council wouldn't take responsibility to move it.
"We had this idea that we wanted to do something to highlight a serious matter with a light-hearted party.
"We had it at 2pm in the wet and cold, as the wall came down at 2pm in 2018 after the excessive rain and the Beast from the East."
Partygoers sang Happy Birthday to the wall and even enjoyed a cake made to look like the fallen wall and churchyard.
Afterwards they headed to the Spotted Cow in Town Street.
Cheryl added: "It has almost become a landmark, like welcome to Holbrook, careful round the wall.
"We’ll be pleased to see the road restored. It blocks one side of the road completely, so it's a hazard."
A spokesperson for Derbyshire County Council said: “We are currently going out to tender to find a contractor who will replace the wall outside the church.
"Until we get the tenders back and decide which contractor we will use we don’t yet know the exact start date.
“Because we will need a road closure for the work to take place we have started the road closure process, as these need a six week notice period.
"We will amend the date of the road closure once we have a contractor in place, as the date may change.
“We appreciate that it has been a long time since the wall collapsed, and we apologise for the delay.
"There are several reasons for the delay.
"It has taken us some time to work out who is responsible for the wall and it has also taken us time to consider how we might best repair the wall without disturbing the graveyard.
"We are also dependent on BT removing an overhead cable so that the required mechanical plant can work on the site.”