i have a 9 month old son who has been constipated almost since birth. i have tried almost everything i think. the doctor just pute him on a lactose free milk based formula but it has not helped. i am fed up! my boy doesnt have a bowel movement for about a week. when he does, he screams in agony and bleeds. sometimes even when he strains himself he is still not successful. i am very scared and want him to not be in that kind of pain anymore. please help me
In Reply to: my little baby boy is in severe pain posted by kelly on January 07, 2003 at 00:12:50:
What is his diet now? Look into a food allergy test, read archives on constipation at this website, make sure he is not dehydrated, see a GI specialist if necessary, don't encourage him to strain, etc...
In Reply to: my little baby boy is in severe pain posted by kelly on January 07, 2003 at 00:12:50:
Kelly, since you say he's been this way almost since birth, have you had him checked out thoroughly for physical abnormalities?
I would make an appointment with a pediatric gastroenterologist (ped GI) although keep in mind that you are going to have to play detective as well. Don't put his health entirely in the doc's hand b/c most likely, you will be the one who figures out what works.
One week without a BM is way too long. Regular peds will tell you otherwise, but they're wrong and obviously if he's screaming and bleeding (might have a fissure there), then he needs some help.
Did you ever breastfeed and if so, did he have problems then? Is he getting enough fluids? Even babies needs LOTS of fluids. Ask your docs how much they think he should get and since he's still a baby, what he should be drinking.
Is he eating solids? What is he eating? I'd give fibery foods at every meal and for every snack. You should do this all through his life -- don't give him the popular, sugary, overly processed foods. I'd totally leave out yogurt, goldfish crackers, rice cereal, maybe bananas, etc.
Here are some ideas: pureed prunes from a jar might help (it's the sugars and not the fiber that do the trick), freeze your own pureed butternut squash, sweet potatoes in an ice cube tray, then pop a cube or two out for him, cut up grapes, apples, oranges, grapefruit, etc. into very small pieces (do a bunch twice a week and keep them in a container), buy broccoli and steam or microwave it before he eats it, you can even mince up lettuce very finely and give that to him. Let him eat as much of this as he will before you feed him cereal and at that why not try some whole wheat cereal that's been soaked in water and is nice and mushy for him. You can also buy whole wheat bread and make your own toast for him and also whole wheat noodles for noodles dishes. Toss in lots of fibery veggie bits and fruit.
He might have allergies -- maybe wheat and/or dairy -- so you might end up doing an elimination diet as well.
It sounds like the poor guy has a fissure possibly and that does hurt. He needs to heal his little hinie.
Good luck.
Martha
In Reply to: my little baby boy is in severe pain posted by kelly on January 07, 2003 at 00:12:50:
Listen to Martha...she gave you good advice. Do not constantly give him a bottle of milk. Get some baby prune juice and give it to him on a regular basis then get the baby food of strained prunes and feed them to him with his breakfast. You will have to do this on a regular basis but don't let his bowels get too watery. Most mothers will make comments like "my baby doens't like prune juice or strained prunes". How crazy! Your kids like what you introduce them to. Continuous bottles of milk are very constipating. Good Luck!
In Reply to: my little baby boy is in severe pain posted by kelly on January 07, 2003 at 00:12:50:
Thanks to everyone that has shared with you, there advice is correct and smile, very caring;
I can feel very strong with the energy and using kinesiology testing, that this baby has a dairy allergy for sure! This means make sure he does not have any cow's dairy; At this time he seems to also need to be off goat milk, but later [maybe 6-7 months try] perhaps once cleared he might deal with unpasturized goat milk, not now; You can try some soy milk in small amounts, but careful here; Now if your concerned about calcium then you can get a great book that will share with you some great ideas to get plenty in the foods you eat; It is by Bernard Jensen-Nature had a Remedy, you will love this book; I could tell you all the things, but i think the research you will enjoy; It would also be smart to make sure he drinks plenty of water not just juices, although some prune is a good idea; Yes, carful with not doing to many starchy foods like grains, and right to no processed foods;
In Reply to: my little baby boy is in severe pain posted by kelly on January 07, 2003 at 00:12:50:
Is he gaining weight? Is he happy when not eating?
In Reply to: my little baby boy is in severe pain posted by kelly on January 07, 2003 at 00:12:50:
Hi, Kelly.
In my opinion, you need a much better doc. Check the holistic practitioner archives for how to find a good one close to you.
ANY physician knows that lactose intolerance is the least likely part of dairy intolerance that can contribute to this. By far the most common is caseine hypersensitivity which your doc has just recommended you continue.
Listen to Terri-Lynn about that.
Begin the stool witholding protocol to stop his pain while you are experimenting with total elimination of caseine (dairy) and, if necessary, wheat (or even the combination of both.
Let us know how you do.
Walt