Stranger Things.
The Duffer Brothers developed the series as a mix of investigative drama alongside supernatural elements portrayed with horror, science fiction and childlike sensibilities.. They also took inspiration from strange experiments that took place during the Cold War and real world conspiracy theories involving secret government experiments. fifth season disa...
A member of the audience shares some thoughts about The 3rd season Stranger Things at IMDB:
¨Season 3 was garbage. It seemed like the writers were tasked to see what people liked about the show and just fill the story line with them. It had excessive use of brands. The 80s music were just injected every where for no reason: every time a person entered the scene, 80s music was blasting loudly. Dialogs were extremely predictable and cheesy. Each character's personality was unnecessarily exaggerated: Hopper is always angry and unreasonable, Erica was constantly sassy but the smartest person ever, the mayor is the worst person in the world, the whole newspaper crew were excessively mean. And finally, the whole plot with the Russians was cheap and not at all well thought out. It was hard to finish the season really.¨
Reviews
Dave says"Understandably they had to cancel DD event due to covid but refuses to give any refund and no reply to emails, instead rescheduling for a years time. While I want to support them, Isn’t that the consumers choice to make?"
Becci Doubleday says"My collagues and I all bought tickets to Secret Cinema's Stranger Things event. We put a lot of effort into our costumes, and on the night excitedly got ready together, travelled into London, waited in the drizzle for ages in the hour long queue... only to be told it was overbooked. Staff refused to give details on rescheduling or refunds; instead we were told that all SC's "tickets" are actually charity donations, thus they had no obligation to let us in if the event was overbooked, because it's a "donation" rather than an entry guarantee. Also told that obviously we shouldn't be naive enough to expect a refund, seeing as they don't sell tickets. #Frustrating. Only after objecting a fair few times did the Secret Cinema rep agree to give us a link that'd guarantee us tickets for the next event along with a discount (mind you, we'd still have to pay AGAIN for ANOTHER event after wasted time, costumes etc). We gave our email addresses - suprise surprise, we never recieved a link or a discount. TBH the most annoying part for me is how it could be so badly organised that us and around 90 others couldn't be let in due to overcrowding. Really really uncool, Secret Cinema."
Adam says"Massively disappointed in this organisation. I have written to them twice with no response. Despite booking within the first few minutes the alleged NHS discounts were not available for the Goodwood drive in. I believe this is nothing more than a marketing gimmick and scam. They wouldn’t answer how many discount tickets they had."
Sarah says"They cancelled an event but are refusing to give me a refund. I'd bought tickets as a present for someone. You can't really give someone a present for a year's time! I wanted my money back to get an alternative present. So short sighted! I will never use them again."
Social Media
Slainmonkey86 says"The Stranger Things mini arcade sucks.....don’t buy it, it’s a rip-off!"
wolfh9rd says"It sucks that stranger things is such a great show and the fandom is the opposite"
inzsuke says"extras: My mad fat diary, Black Mirror, The good place, Stranger Things, Switched, Lucifer, Coisa mais linda, Every…"
euphoriccry says"RT @1980SMILKOVICH: i want more moots. rt if you like: (tv shows) shameless (US) gotham my babysitters a vampire glee merlin stranger thin…"
In The News
Screen Rant reports"Stranger Things: Why Barb's Season 1 Death Was So Controversial"
Los Angeles Times reports"David Harbour on 'Stranger Things' and Hopper: 'He has to die'"
Screen Rant reports"Stranger Things: Will Almost Killed A Beloved Character In Season 2"
Looper reports"The darkest Easter egg in Stranger Things season 3"