Brink seems to be all the rage today, and that makes sense cause it just got released on.. I think today?
As far as I know you guys in America got it today, but then I saw a comment on raptr... some guy said he'd been playing it all weekend? Anyways, it only comes out on the 13th for those of us in the U.K. I pre-ordered it about a week ago, against my better judgement.
FF XIII was the first game I ever pre-ordered, but Im an FF Fanboy so of course I did that. You see, like a lot of people, I tend to get games way after their release and by that point I always know if the game is for me or not.
But then I get the feeling that I missed out on discovering the game's quality for myself. Also, there's so many games I don't take chances on that turn out to be awesome, and then I never get around to buying them and then the sequel comes out and everyone's all like "oh my god so good!" and Im like "shit I should have gotten into this earlier and now Im way behind!".
In this case however, I knew that I shouldn't bother getting Brink cause it would just be a fail. But then I saw those tutorial/ads and thought it was clever, and my idea of the game changed. Sooooo, I pre-ordered it, excited about the fact that I'd get to form a completely untainted opinion about it. The way it should be.
I was telling my friend this same thing just before I got back to my flat to see the sparkling 'D' 1up gave it. I had no idea it was being released in America a few days earlier than here so I have to say dammit 1up! I got no heads up on that. Obviously 1up isn't to blame, Ill just have to be wary of these things the next time I want a fresh and unexpected gaming experience. Things like different release dates and the fact that gaming sites tend to review games. It probably didn't help that I chose to read the whole review too.
I now know not to get my hopes up, so I also have to say thanks 1up. I heard that a lot of people who pre-ordered Brink had jumped ship. But not me. Im still determined to play it and maybe even enjoy it. I was also planning on giving my initial thoughts about it on here when I did finally play it but no ones gonna need to read that anymore. Soo, I just want to say a couple things before we rap up this post.
One thing I really like about this game is that Bethesda gave a shout out to their other (probably better) games in the form of the pre-order packages that, depending on where you ordered from, gives you exclusive customised skins, armour etc. There are four of these: the DOOM pack, the Fallout pack, the Spec ops pack and the Psycho pack. That last one as far as I know is the only one not connected to an already existing game.
The other thing I like is that one of the characters looks like Altair or Ezio found themselves in 'Attack the Block' (Pic below). Cloths that conceal the identity of the character but are reasonable attire for free running in make him a cool lookin' character while at the same time having a reason to look cool. Too bad the game doesn't make better use of the S.M.A.R.T system and free running....
- This guy deserves to be in a good game, maybe Brink 2 will do him justice -