My 30 Days of Truth challenge I will admit that I changed one question and changed a few curse words... other than that the challenge is intact.
Day 20: What are your views on drugs and alcohol?...
Okay....? I'm supposed to be honest right?
Yup.
Drugs...
In my opinion, prescription drugs are being prescribed too freely in the entertainment business.. people shop doctors too much and are just being abused. Whether it's Oxycontin, Xanax or plenty of others... they are addicting. In my opinion and is no less than shooting up heroine.
In the United States one person dies every nineteen minutes of an unintentional prescription drug overdose. Prescription drug abuse is the fastest growing drug problem in the United States.
In my opinion, street drugs are totally getting out of hand. People are getting crazy and trying all sorts of crazy mixtures of chemicals. Anything for a crazy high. If it's not crystal meth, then it's ecstasy... do these people really understand what they are consuming? Why not just snort straight Ajax?! Remember the scene from Cheech and Chong's Up In Smoke"?
A study in the United State shows that drug use kills more people than traffic accidents.
In my opinion, cannabis should be made available to all cancer patients... dang... you want honesty right? Well... I am of those with a mindset that think that it should be made legal and be regulated.. Shheeesh... they did make alcohol legal which was the end of prohibition, didn't they?
{and} somehow tobacco slipped through the radar... It is a fact that cigarette smoking kills about 6 million people {and rising} worldwide each year. This is just so crazy! Couldn't find unbiased facts about cannabis caused deaths.
I strongly feel that both cigarettes and alcohol are far worse for you than marijuana.
You hear of plenty of drunk drivers killing people- young and old alike... ruining families and at times even disintegrating them.
I feel that when alcohol is abused, not used in moderation, it is worse than marijuana... after all how often do you here of someone killing while on pot? Heck! They're too stone to get off the couch! {and} if they were to get off the couch it would be to head directly to the fridge and or pantry! wink, wink.
It is reported that there are 2.5 million deaths worldwide related to alcohol.
I am not saying that I do not drink... I do... socially... and maybe 3 to 4 drinks per week. Heck, I have unwind somehow. I do have a very active five year old. lol! Have I abused alcohol? Well, there have been a time or two that I should have stopped earlier in the game... but other than that no.
I am not saying that alcohol is bad... I am saying that some people have more of an addicting personality that others and should not drink.
Where do you draw the line?
I could go on and on on this matter but I think this gives you an idea of what my views are on drugs and alcohol.
What do YOU think?
"Annual drug deaths: tobacco: 395,000, alcohol: 125,000, 'legal' drugs: 38,000, illegal drug overdoses: 5,200, marijuana: 0. Considering government subsidies of tobacco, just what is our government protecting us from in the drug war?" ~William A. Turnbow.
Here's to 30 Days of Truth!Here's to 30 Days of Truth:
They legalized marijuana for medicinal purposes in my town, and I hate it. I voted NO when it rolled around, but it still passed with a resounding yes.
Honesty can be a bit uncomfortable, huh? I appreciate the fact you're honest though!
Agree with your POV..especially about cigs and alcohol being worse than pot..Thanks for answering honestly:)
I hate hate HATE drugs!! They ruin so many lives...and not just the users...but it's hard on a users family too. I'm a former smoker, and I drink a glass of wine on occasion. I don't agree with marijuana use except for medicinal purposes.Great post!
Oh I totally agree with you about pot and cancer patients. In my nutrition practice, one of the first things I tell my girls going through chemo is to find some of this stuff to make sure they keep an appetite! Prescription drugs are far worse than cannibas and yet they are doled out like candy! By the way, I am not even one who would ever smoke it!
I think there probably are deaths that are attributable to smoking pot, but there is no way to know. I think it's worse for your lungs than actual cigarette smoke b/c at least cigarettes are somewhat filtered and we KNOW how bad that is for your lungs. I've never smoked pot, but know a lot of people who have. I think that no matter what, as you said, some people just have that "addictive" type personality and no matter what the "Poison" may be, it will be dangerous because they never know where to draw the line. And I absolutely agree with you that prescription drugs are WAY overprescribed. I am a drinker, though. ;) Love my beer and wine.