SEATTLE — Seahawks coach Pete Carroll is wading into the Bucs-Giants kneel-down controversy and taking the side of Tampa Bay coach Greg Schiano.
"I'm glad it was brought up like this because I think it was a competitor competing, and I don't think there is anything wrong with that," Carroll said at his news conference Thursday, supporting Schiano's instruction to his defense to try to force a fumble as quarterback Eli Manning took a kneel-down in the waning seconds of New York's 41-34 win Sunday.
"That's exactly what you should do: try to win the game. And there was a chance to win the game on that play, and I thought Greg did exactly the right thing. And I would do exactly the same thing if in the same situation."
Carroll was in that situation in the Seahawks' opener against the Cardinals but didn't try to force a fumble.
Giants steamroll Panthers 36-7
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Andre Brown rushed for a career-high 113 yards and two touchdowns as the Giants won their second game in five days, 36-7 over the Panthers.
Brown started in place of Ahmad Bradshaw (neck injury).
Ramses Barden caught nine passes for a career-high 138 yards in his first NFL start. Usual starting receivers Hakeem Nicks (foot) and Domenik Hixon (concussion) also were out. Eli Manning was 27-of-35 for 288 yards with one touchdown and no interceptions.
The Giants scored on their first four possessions to take a 20-0 halftime lead and outgained the Panthers 303-125.
Carolina quarterback Cam Newton struggled and was pressured into three interceptions. He was 16-of-30 for 242 yards. The Panthers had five turnovers, including two by returner Joe Adams.
Report: refs, league meet: The NFL and the locked-out referees union had substantial talks Monday and Tuesday, but no progress was made, Fox Sports reported.
Dolphins: The team received a 24-hour extension to sell 85 percent of its nonpremium seats at Sun Life Stadium so Sunday's game against the Jets won't be blacked out. Several thousand tickets needed to be sold, the South Florida Sun Sentinel reported. … Starting linebacker Kevin Burnett didn't practice because of a foot injury.
Jets: Cornerback Darrelle Revis, who missed Sunday's game against the Steelers with a concussion, was cleared for contact and practiced, and said he will play Sunday.
Rams: Players brushed off comments by Redskins rookie quarterback Robert Griffin III that they were "dirty" and "unprofessional" during their victory Sunday. Griffin III said he was hit after plays and in other unnecessary ways. The Rams said Griffin simply faced an aggressive NFL defense.
steelers: Linebacker James Harrison (knee) and safety Troy Polamalu (calf) didn't practice, and neither is expected to play Sunday against the Raiders. … Linebacker Lawrence Timmons said he was fined $21,000 for a helmet-to-helmet hit on Jets QB Mark Sanchez on Sunday.
Titans: Defensive end Kamerion Wimbley said he was fined $15,000 for a hit on Chargers QB Philip Rivers on Sunday.