Bezuidenhout B&B
Malelane, Wild Frontier - Accommodation
Bezuidenhout B&B in Malelane.
Facilities & Activities nearby:
Facilities available at Bezuidenhout B&B,Malelane, Wild Frontier
Facilities
- Available Next Weekend
- Braai/Barbecue
- Credit Card Facilities
- Swimming Pool
Activities Nearby
- Big 5
- Bird Watching
- Fishing
- Game Drives
- Health & Fitness
- Quad Biking
Nearby Towns:
Alternative accommodation near Malelane, Wild Frontier
Request / Book Now:
Enquire about availability at Bezuidenhout B&B
Directions to Bezuidenhout B&B
Map of Bezuidenhout B&B in Malelane, Wild Frontier+ OPEN FULL MAP
GPS Co-Ordinates: 31° 30' 39.9" E / 25° 29' 36.9" S
By Car / Driving
Driving to Bezuidenhout B&B Bezuidenhout B&B
"no Title"
Very good , will recomend it to all
"no Title"
Lovely grounds, lovely room, Matilda was super friendly and accommodating as we were getting in late from Joburg. Would definitely stay again!
"no Title"
Very nice accomodation clean nice peaceful garden a home away from home owner very nice lady
"no Title"
Stayed in the cottage which was spacious first family of 6!
"no Title"
Welcoming wasn't very pleasant. We were made to wait outside whilst the booking, which was already paid for, was being "confirmed". The accomodation was alright though.
"no Title"
We came quiet late after a long day in Kruger and after checking other places on the same price range. Matilda was very welcoming and helped us with all our needs. The room was big and clean, great bath and TV. Highly recommended.
"no Title"
Lovely place great owner only toilet space was small
"no Title"
Very lovely, cosy B&B. Dcor is old but welcoming and the owner is an extremely lovely lady.
"no Title"
The owner and workers of this guest are incredibly friendly and go over the top to make you feel at home. I felt bad for how helpful they were.
"no Title"
Best guest house I've been at. Matilda is the sweetest lady in the world. The place is beautiful. Definitely recommend Bezuidenhout B&B.
"no Title"
Awesome guesthouse in a small town, very comfortable with a swimming pool to cool off in the hot weather, great service as well, and at a good price, surely will come back to stay here again
"Nice"
Very neat and clean.
"Recommended"
I enjoyed the warm and personalized hospitality. Keep it up!
Why use the "Request a quote”
Request a quote from Bezuidenhout.