Hello,
there will be a micro patch incoming tomorrow, these are the times:
EU
-Not given
NA
–03:30 Pacific Daylight Time (10:30 UTC) and will last approximately one hour.
SEA
-Not given
RU
- RU8 – 3: 00- 3:25 (GMT).
- RU9 – 3: 00-3 : 25 ( GMT ).
- RU10 – 3: 30-3: 55 ( GMT ).
- RU3 – 4: 00-4: 25 ( GMT ).
- RU2 – 4: 20-4: 45 ( GMT ).
- RU6 – 5: 00-5: 25 ( GMT ).
Any more info about the content available?
Wasnt given.
Any idea what it fixes?
Yay…maybe my win rate will go back to normal.
I hope it fixes the fire alarm that keeps on meep-meep-meeeping even when the fire is out.
That was already fixed.
Or when you are dead from said fire…
inb4 it brakes all the mods again
Pls fixerino the fire alarm.
Standard EU time is 6:00 CET
So what will it break?
Well, what isn’t boken already?
I’ve said it many times before and I keep saying it until someone at WG gets it: TELL US WHAT IS IN THE MICRO PATCHES!!! How unprofessional… How hard is it to put a news item on the website with the details? Users want to know, get it?
maybe they finally fix that annoying glitch in ingame chat…..or is it too much to ask?
What glitch in chat?
in game chat…..when you change it so all can read it….it does not switch back automatically to team chat…..you must switch it back…..if you forget or start another battle then everyone can read what you write to your team ( plan , position…)
That’s not a glitch, that is a feature of the 9.15 patch. Read the patch notes.
That being said, I do agree that it can be annoying, after having been used to the previous system. The only situation where it seems to make sense to me is when you are platooned and don’t have voice comms, so you don’t have to switch every time you want to tell your platoonmates something. But I always have voice comms when I platoon so it’s not useful to me.
Oh no Sandbox changes are coming to the live server #RIPWOT
/retartedKid
A bit early for that, don’t you think?
WOWS 5.7 today I would expect as well
Photo sponsored by: Don’tTouchMyTank.com.
Praying it fixes my issue with 2+ crashes every battle, even in safe mode. Before you say ANYTHING, AT ALL about fixing it: I promise you, I already tried it.
Have you tried sacrificing a chicken?
Maybe its to fix the soccer bugÉ
no patch today…
What are they baking; oh wai…
No patch yet for me on EU and it’s 11.57 already…..
Where the hell do you live?Well,certainly not in Europe,since your timezone is GMT+5
i feel sorry for EU players that staff gives u shit
It’s 11.58 and still no patch for me….. (EU)
Its hard to tell when they dont announce, but I find odd that RU and NA have and EU doesnt.
NA had some issues with clan icons I believe. I dunno about RU since I don’t play there, and EU is running smooth as silk, so no need for any patch to fix what ain’t broken. Well….. It is WoT, so they may break something to create the need for an other patch.
GMT+5 again…so this is why EU peeps were playing too yolo.All the daft terrorists are using our servers 🙁
Server side patch?
Sounds like a ‘Localisation’ issue, not affecting EU.
Made up photo… Pah
Congrats on the almost useless information. We will receive a micropatch, but it’s purpose is, the changes are?
They didnt told what the changes were otherwise I would have written it, princess.
*ding-dong*… opens the door…yes, good afternoon, I need to come into your house to fix something…err, what is the problem? ..Well, I won’t tell you, but you must let me in…
would you let this person into your house? No way!
May be a vampire.
Looks like a Launcher update
AW micropatch 0.15.5?
EU
-Not given
Wheres the “under the palm tree” BS that you give NA you biased moron
I’m guessing it is removing soccer mode, since the Copo America is over tonight.