One of the best ways to monetize your blog or your web site is to join an affiliate program. When you are an affiliate, you market someone else’s products and services. Basically, they put an ad up on your web site, and whenever someone who visits your web site clicks through and makes a purchase, you get a portion of the sale. Most affiliate programs do not cost you anything to join, and you are provided with banner ads and other ads to display on your web site. The key is joining affiliate programs that sell products and services that people are interested in, and that fit with the overall theme on your web site or blog. If you are known as a person of faith, then Christian affiliate programs may be the way to go.
Selling inspiration through Christian affiliate programs
There are many products and services out there aimed at helping Christians live lifestyles more in accordance with their beliefs. Music, books, movies, editing software, games, artwork and more are all part of the Christian marketing world. These products are designed to help buyers praise God, or at least encourage His spirit in their homes. And when you sign up as an affiliate to sell these products and services, you can earn a little bit of money off of people’s desire to have more inspiring influences in their homes.
Most Christian affiliate programs offer commissions on sales that run between 10% and 15%. However, it is possible to find affiliate programs that will offer 20%, or even as much as 40%. Some of the most generous programs offer lifetime programs. In these, everyone who comes through your site and makes a purchase is identified as “your” customer. Even if he or she goes straight to the web site for further purchases, you receive a commission every time something is bought by that person. This can be a great way to build up a regular revenue stream.
Gearing your web site toward Christian affiliate programs
While you do not have to have a specifically Christian blog or web site in order to take advantage of these affiliate programs, it can help you to focus your content on issues that are of interest to Christians. The good news is that this can be just about anything. You can write about parenting from a Christian perspective, share stories of your life adventures, write about social issues, politics and even money - and say that you are doing it from a Christian perspective.
This way, it is natural that you have ads and links to Christian products and services. Plus, writing about something from a Christian perspective attracts visitors to your web site who are more interested in purchasing products and services aimed especially at Christians. With the right keywords, you can bring more eyes to your web site or blog, and that will help you in the long run, since it means more people to potentially click through the ads for your affiliate vendors.
When you promote your web site or blog, you should do so using a variety of methods. Here are some things you can do to help increase traffic to your web site and promote your content:
In the end, there are many opportunities offered by Christian affiliate programs. If you can increase traffic to your web site or blog, you could make a pretty decent amount of money using affiliate programs.
Related Article:
What are Affiliate Programs? >>