Best Blades for Cutting Concrete: Which Blade Should You Choose?
Diamond saw blades are often the best choice for many cutting projects. So, it should be no surprise that diamond […]
When cutting natural stone like granite, marble, or slate, the job requires the right blade for the best finish. This is where stone cutting diamond blades are your top choice. Coarse diamond particles quickly slice through stone while maintaining a clean edge. These blades provide faster cuts and an optimal finish on your stone. At Cost Cutting Blades, you can find a variety of diamond blades and accessories and purchase them easily through our online shop. When you order stone cutting blades from our online store, you can trust that you are getting the highest quality diamond blades in the business.
At Cost Cutting Blades, we offer one stone cutting diamond blade in a wide range of blade sizes. Our dry-cutting Diamond Rescue & Demolition Blade can be used with several different types of equipment. Angle grinders, circular saws, high-speed saws, low-HP walk-behind saws, and table saws are all compatible for use with this stone cutting blade. Aside from natural stone, this diamond blade can cut through cast iron, metal, chains, concrete, steel, and more. Thanks to the high-quality diamonds used in the construction of this blade, it is abrasive enough to quickly cut through materials and last up to 150 times longer than other blades. We carry seven size options between 4”-9” in diameter and another seven sizes between 10”-16”. Choose the right size blade for your project, or send us a message to help you decide.
When you order stone cutting blades and other products online from Cost Cutting Blades, you are ordering American-made, top-tier quality. Our Diamond Rescue & Demolition Blade, along with the rest of our blades, wheels, and accessories, is rigorously tested for high performance and durability. Each of our blades ships free nationwide and comes with a one-year warranty. This means that if you are not completely satisfied with your purchase, contact us within one year and we will fully refund your cost within thirty days.
If you have a construction product that requires precise cuts through natural stone, choose one of our stone cutting diamond blades. You can also browse our full line of blades easily on our website to find the right blade for your project. Or if you don’t see exactly what you’re looking for, reach out to our team. Let us know what you’re interested in, and we can work with you to develop a custom product.
If you are looking for high-quality stone cutting blades, core bits, accessories, and more at a fair price, visit Cost Cutting Blades today. From wet saws to dry saws that cut a wide range of materials, Order the right stone cutting blades for your construction project online, or message us for custom orders. We’ve made our online store easy to navigate to find just what diamond blade you need. But if you have any questions, give us a call at 504-581-8573 or send us a message. We value your time and are dedicated to providing you with top-quality customer service. We can help you determine the best blade for your job!