Most of us around the world must have watched the recently concluded Rio 2016 Olympics and Paralympics games held at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. How can we forget the memorable performances especially by the likes of Usain Bolt, the Jamaican sprinter and also the planet’s fastest man; Michael Phelps, the all time great American swimmer; Mo Farah, the British long distance runner; and many others? These unforgettable performances must be still fresh on our minds.
As regards performance of Indian players, our chest must have swelled with pride when the Indian players like PV Sindhu and Sakshi Malik received their medals. And, how can we forget the remarkable performance of Dipa Karmakar and Abhinav Bindra, who did exceeding well in Rio Olympics. Additionally, Devendra Jhajharia, Mariyappan Thangavelu, Deepa Malik, and Varun Singh Bhatti did India proud by winning medals in Rio 2016 Paralympics.
Doesn’t the inspiring performance of some of our players indicate that we Indians are capable of winning and can do much better with belief in ourselves? Yes, we can if we decide to work hard with determination, dedication, and discipline and with right infrastructural support, we can achieve many more medals at Olympics.
Looking at the best of the best performing, you also might have, perhaps, wished to participate in Olympics, and be an Olympian. Well, you could be an Olympian, but if you couldn’t be then at least you could be like an Olympian. How? You too could also be like an Olympian by following the values , or universal principles, of Olympic and Paralympic games. Do you know as to what the values of these games are? Friendship, Respect and Excellence are the three Olympic values whereas Determination, Inspiration, Courage and Equality are the four Paralympic values. When we conduct our lives in accordance with these values, or principles, we not only excel on the sports field but also in every sphere of human endeavor and turn out to be winners.
Yes, you too can be an Olympian if you follow the Olympics (and Paralympics) values, or principles in your day to day life. Are you willing?
Advertisements