Something which has always interested me, and caught my attention is astrology, and star signs. I don't necessarily care for daily horoscopes, or telling the future, but I just love looking into the traits, and characteristics that each star sign, and in particular my own, may possess. I'm also an avid poet, as some of you probably already know if you have been following me for a while, so I thought that I would combine the two together in today's post.
One of my very good blogger friends Alice also has the same star sign as me (Pisces) and we thought it would be a cute idea if we did a collab, which was based upon the topic. She's going to be doing a DIY post over on her blog (which you can read here), and I'm going to be sharing both of our verses of poetry on mine for you! We hope you enjoy...
She's selfless
It means she's caring and understanding
but this can be a devilish trait in disguise.
She finds it a struggle to fall in love with herself
All of her own emotions build up and overspill, like books on a shelf
Being selfless drains all of her energy
as to others, she is always so genuinely complimentary
She's always the first to offer a helping hand, or a shoulder to cry on
yet she falls asleep listening to the saddest of songs
Everybody treats her like she's nothing but an accessory
They only speak to her when they feel it's necessary
But, she's selfless and that's what makes her so sweet
It's definitely a trait which she wants to keep.
She's sensitive
It means she's deep and empathetic
but it can be negative.
The tears need holding back, ceaselessly
from the idea that no problem can be
solved heedlessly
Being sensitive wears her out
because of the countless fears it brings about
She shan't see blood, violence nor torture
for her chemicals will unbalance and haunt her
Her hypersensitivity can be misperception
this feeling left as a victim of her brain and minds deception
But she's sensitive and that's what makes her great;
A true example of her Pisces fate.
- J.M & A.G