Discussion in 'Disney Restaurants' started by Faline, Jan 16, 2014.
Have never been to either, and want to try one for dinner. Which is better?
Log in or Sign up to hide this advert.
Boat wrights! Love the food, and have always had great service
Def Boatwright's. Good food!!!
Third vote for Boatwrights.....everything was yummy!!
Ok, I'll be different.
I love Olivia's. They have a lot of items that appeal to me. I have eaten there several times over the years, including Nov. '13 and always enjoyed my meal.
I ate at Boatwright's in July '13. Most of the items on the menu are too spicy for my tastes although I must admit that the corn bread is wonderful.
Boatwrights
We've only tried Olivia's for breakfast and loved it! Can't comment on the dinner there though, but the menu looks pretty good!
Boatwrights!
Olivia's for us. A must-do on every trip even when we don't stay at the resort. Great service and food. Eating outside in temperate weather is great fun.
Boatwright's for sure! So, so delicious.
Slight edge to Boatwright's for food and restaurant...
Definite edge to Boatwright's for proximity to post-dinner entertainment.
Olivia's! Go there for breakfast every trip!
Jim
Boatwrights! Yummy food and different environment.
Olivia's is one of our least favorites...
Olivia's
We've eaten at and enjoyed both, but definitely prefer Boatwrights. I just wished Boatwrights still served breakfast. We used to love their sweet potato pancakes.
We find ourselves going back to Olivia's every trip! I don't plan on going but we end up missing it so much that we go. They have the best grits!
We ate at both last year. I'd give Olivia's the edge for food (and a much more extensive menu). I adored the scallops. Boatwright's was pretty good - the corn bread is a great change from all the sourdough rolls at other restaurants - but first they removed the beef tenderloins and now they've replaced the root-beer pork chop with a sweet tea version. Also, 4 or 5 nights a week Bob Jackson entertains in the open lounge next door (VERY family-friendly; not at all a 'bar' feel).
So if it's just about the food, I'd go with Olivia's. If it's about the entire evening, I'd go with Boatwright's.
I second this!
Separate names with a comma.