The Self At Your Wrist
Wearable Technologies, Self-Perception and Identity at the Threshold of a New Quantified Existence.
This is a translation of the original italian article, commissioned and later published on December 9th, 2014 by Giannino Bassetti Foundation.
 become a worldwide movement, the Quantified Self..
In a post of 2011 Gary Wolf explained:
?”
Its founders agree that this movement has developed in an unexpected way, ‘Show&.”
Wearable Technologies, Tracking and Digital Health
Back in 2008, in the early days of the movement, the only devices available on the “Quantified” market were produced by Nike within Nike+ platform, which was designed by the brilliant mind of the Italian-born Roberto Tagliabue.
Over time, QS continued to grow (see Google Trends) in close relation with the development of new wearable “quantifying” technologies such as the famous FitBit, whose first version dates back to 2008, or the first Jawbone UP of 2011, followed in 2012 by the third activity tracker, the famous, now discontinued Nike Fuelband.
A visit at the specialized wearable technology, Amazon or apps like Expereal.
Today, we’re starting to get pretty close at being able to recognize and track emotions in a completely automatic way. One such example is the Italian company Empatica, software system, together with the cardiac sensor embedded in the.
Technology vs Humans: Self-Identity and Self-Consciousness in a ‘Quant were only enhancing the body with brand new functional skills, such as the cutting ability, digital augmentations of today seem to always have corresponding side effects. group suddenly decided to abandon the activity of self tracking.
It is very possible that many others preferred to devote their time to new and perhaps more exciting activities than self-tracking, but Alexandra Carmichael’s case stands out because she wrote a poem on this occasion and has published it on QS website. project, I tried to emphasize how the human body provides a great deal of communication channels through its sensory system. In many cases, these alternative channels may even be far more accurate than the already overloaded visual pathways.
Currently, even if accurate, they are very little used.).
These new possibilities for interaction are still mainly unexplored, but even in this scenario, the issue of responsibility remains crucial.
The role of design in a period of identity crisis
“Who is responsible? Here we have many examples of brilliant innovations, but the issue of responsibility is key and must be addressed. Who is going to be responsible for the future?” — asked Piero Bassetti_4<< ‘extension’ ‘human’.
In this modern scenario, where technology, biology and psychology are inexorably mixed together, designing the artificial have more than just a mild impact on the human race. Today, more than ever, designing artificiality means redesigning humanity.