Psalm 55:22 is a popular Bible verse from a prayer written by King David when he had been betrayed by his close friend. David pours out the cries of his heart to the Lord in Psalm 55. He was hurt and angry, and his prayer shows it.Though David was a man of war and accustomed to fighting, this particular fight was one that cut him to the quick. It wasn’t an enemy who had betrayed him; it was a close friend.
Most of us have felt betrayed at some point in our lives, whether it was a friend, a relative or someone else very close to us. The pain of betrayal is what David was facing, but a burden can be anything that weighs us down.
The word “burden” is defined like this: 1) anything that is carried 2) heavy load, as of work, care or duty 3) to put a burden on; oppress.
We are people and imperfect creatures. Even as Christians with the Holy Spirit living inside us, we fail at times. And others fail us. That’s why mercy and forgiveness are so important.
Though Jesus told us we would have tribulation in the world, He encouraged us with these words in John 16:33.
“These things I have spoken to you, that in Me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation; but be of good cheer, I have overcome the world.”
Jesus overcame the world by forgiving us all. He went to the cross to protect and defend us from His Father’s wrath and punishment for sin. The cross is a bold declaration of His intense love and mercy toward us.
But even if we have followed His example and forgiven those who weigh us down, the pain of injustice can still be a heavy burden upon us. David understood this and said in Psalm 55:22,
Cast
your burden on the Lord,
And He shall sustain you;
He shall never permit the righteous to be moved.
The Hebrew meanings of “cast” are: throw out, down or away, hurl, pluck, throw.Let’s not allow the burden stick to us. We must deliberately take it from our heart and throw it out. We must place it at the cross, where Jesus died to receive it from us.
Jesus told us that His burden is light (Matthew 11:30). He said He would give us rest (Matthew 11:28). Let’s take Him up on that promise, and cast our cares at His feet. Like a loyal Friend, He wants rest and peace for us even in the midst of a storm.
Psalm 55:22 also says He will sustain us, which in Hebrew means: keep in, abide, comprehend, contain, feed, guide, hold, nourish, receive and make provision.
When we are free from the weight of the burden, we can feel and receive His abiding Presence, protection and provision; we can enjoy every meaning of the word, sustain when we are out from under the burden.
The last promise in Psalm 55:22 says, “He shall never permit the righteous to be moved.” “Moved” in Hebrew means: waver, slip, shake or fall; be out of course, be fallen in decay.
We can confidently claim this promise and live in strength, victory and vitality if we believe that we are the righteous He is talking about here. But, if we have doubt about who we are in Christ even though we are covered by the blood of Jesus Christ, then we can flounder around in a confused fog of doubt and unbelief, heavily burdened by many things.
Even though He has promised us many great things in the Bible, we must participate in the giving process by receiving the gift. If we don’t believe, we probably won’t receive.
It is faith that makes us well. Jesus said it many times.
He shall never permit the righteous to be moved.
Ask for help believing. Ask for help casting your burdens. Ask for help receiving. Reach out to Him for help, and He will sustain you. Study the Bible verse of Psalm 55:22, practice casting your burden upon the Lord and enjoy victory and freedom.