What is Happening and Why I Haven’t Posted in Forever6
August 4, 2013 by stpaulhaus
So it has been pretty quite around St. Paul Haus the past month and a half. I do apologize that I threw out that last post with the news that were are selling our beloved STP Haus without much warning, a full explaination, or any follow-up correspondence.
For those of you that you that we have seen and talked to in the last month you are probably already aware of all that has taken place over the past month, but the majority of you are not. Here is a timeline of has happened over the past couple months at St. Paul Haus.
1) We put STP Haus on the market with a conservative asking price
2) We received multiple offers in the first 2 days
3) We accepted an offer for $10k over the asking price
4) Buyers inspection took place and they asked for a couple minor fixes that we were able to do ourselves in less than 30 minutes
6) 3 appraisals took place. Yes, 3.
7) Another inspection required for the buyers financing took place
8) The buyers were required at the last minute to hire a contractor to do some minor painting on the garage in order to receive their financing
9) Closing was pushed back by a week to complete the required painting and is scheduled to take place at the end of the week.
In the mean time we moved all our belongings into storage, and we have rented a very small and fully furnished condo that is close to downtown. We are currently looking for another fixer-upper that has everything we could ever want and more, on a strict budget. Easy right?
I am not able to really continue blogging about home renovations when I don’t currently have a home. In the mean time I thought it would be fun to play a little game of “Haus Hunters” while we continue our search. More to come on that later.
I’ll stop holding my breath come Friday.
Anyone else out there putting your home on the market or looking for one yourself? Lets talk real estate!
I will miss the best Bed and Breakfast in town. We’ve toyed with the thought of listing our place and returning to family friendly STP and leaving Cali. Looking forward to your next venture!
That would be sooo fun to having you guys back in town for good 🙂 Do you think wifey would like the snow?? We promise to have you over to the new crib when he find one–we will even have a real bed for you to sleep in too!
Congrats! I’ll think good closing thoughts for you! I can wait to see what house you guys get. And I will completely enjoy virtual Haus shopping with you 🙂
Thanks! It should make for some good blogging. I’m just hoping we find something soon. Home searching is exhausting!!
Found your blog googling about St. Paul home renovations – we have somewhat similar houses, although ours wasn’t as much of a fixer upper (here are some recent-ish pics from last fall): and we are listing our house in 3 weeks and currently looking for a house in St Paul that has everything we could ever hope for and more and in the exact neighborhood we want. With 2 kids under 4. Anyway, thought I would commiserate – and I’ll definitely be following your blog now! Good luck finding your dream house!
Thank you! Finding the perfect house is so difficult–especially when there are so few homes on the market in STP. Maybe we will end up looking at some of the same houses?? I cannot image moving this 2 kids–it is difficult enough as is with 2 adults. Hopefully it isn’t too painful for you. I’m glad you found our site! I will definitely check out your blog. I haven’t come across too many other St. Paulians blogging about their home renos and stuff. Consider yourself followed!