This morning was a bright and cheery one!
I did not realize how much I took sunshine for granted until I moved from Florida to Michigan. Everyone keeps telling me that the summers here are sunny and beautiful, and I cannot wait for it to get here already.
For the first time in ages, Roadie and I both had shadows during our morning walk around the neighborhood. I took full advantage of the “warm” weather and made an extra lap around our block to soak it in.
I know Roadie loved it too, because upon our return it looked as though he was actually smiling.
While living down south, I really enjoyed my morning and afternoon walks with him outside. It was my little escape and excuse to get out and enjoy some fresh air. I am keeping my fingers crossed that as the days go by the temperature only goes up from here!
Breakfast
Today’s coffee time also made me smile. For some reason, I felt like grabbing an old throwback mug from the breakfast place I used to work at.
I miss that food something terrible! While dancing in Orlando, I worked as a waitress for First Watch Restaurants for three years, and I am not exaggerating when I say I ate their food at least once if not twice a shift.
It is that delicious!
There are locations nationwide, but none of them have traveled up to Michigan quite yet. I am counting down the days (28!) until I make my visit home to Florida, and you better believe I will be stopping at a First Watch the first opportunity I get.
Until then, I do my best to remember the kind of food I used to order. Egg beater breakfast scrambles were certainly an everyday favorite!
Today I made one with egg beaters, spinach, mushrooms, onions, and feta cheese.
I sided it with a MorningStar Farms Veggie Sausage Pattie and a slice of whole wheat toast smeared in peanut butter.
Unless I was opening, I would come a half an hour early every shift and order something very similar before a long day of work. Yummy!
Five Funny Things I Do Every Day
This morning I got a bit of a giggle from fellow healthy living blogger, Janice. Today she shared 5 Crazy Things She Does when she thinks no one is looking, and I could relate to the majority of her list.
While on my walk this morning I kept thinking of some pretty funny things I do on a daily basis. Some are subconscious habits, and most are just plain weird. Every one, however, would embarrass me if I knew someone was watching me while doing them. So… why not embarrass myself a little and share them with you? 😉
1. While sitting down for any period of time (mostly at the computer), I am constantly moving. I am either tapping my leg, chewing on my lip, or playing with the backs of my earrings.
2. I jam out to at least one slow jam favorite a day in the car. (Really… does anyone not do that?) Lately my go-to is Give Me Love by Ed Sheeran.
(Coolest music video I’ve seen in a while, by the way.)
3. When I need to study or concentrate on something, my mind quickly wanders. I will often zone out and sometimes even interlock my fingers, then move them up and down. When I finally realize what I am doing, I immediately stop. It is the weirdest thing in the world, and Scott thinks it’s hilarious when he catches me do it!
4. When I clean any type of surface or put on mascara my mouth instantly opens, and occasionally my tongue will sneak out! It’s so awkward.
5. I am a serious speed walker. I hate feeling like I am stuck behind someone on a sidewalk, at the mall, and especially at the airport. Ninety-nine percent of the time I am not trying to work out, but just prefer to get places faster. Guess I’m a little impatient?! lol.
And now you can officially make fun of me. I think it’s funny too!
Questions of the Day
I would love to see if any of you can relate to any of these.
• What are some funny/weird things you do every day?
• Are most “embarrassing” things you do usually subconscious or just by habit?
I’m a speed walker too. I can’t stand when people stroll everywhere!
Maybe it’s a runner thing? lol.
I have your back on the speed walking. I thought it was just a Chicago “fast paced” thing I picked up, but I can’t stand slow walkers!
My sister and I also have the “Schneider” blink (we named/made up)which means our left eye blinks faster than our right, and if you time it juuuust right, you can catch it in a photo and we look, well, special. haha
HAHA. That sounds amazing! You and your sister sound very special (and awesome!) 😉
I’m from Tampa!! I miss First Watch too! Those banana crunch pancakes were a treat–and loved my egg wihite omelet with fruit
Ohhhh my gosh, hands down Banana Crunch pancake with chocolate chips was my favorite way to splurge there. SOOO GOOD! 🙂