February 16, 2013Kool Kitsch For Sale on eBay
By Sara In AZ
Hey y’all, check out all the cool stuff that is up for sale on eBay right now!
First up, these Vintage Mid Century Guitar Shaped Dancer Wall Plaques
from seller lonemalt.
Wow, what a FAB pink radio!!! Check out this Vintage Firestone Original Deco Pink Retro Radio
from seller oldradiodaze125.
You could have an instant collection of vintage yellow Kromex for just one bid! Check out this Huge 15 Piece Set of Vintage Yellow Kromex
from seller chinahutchandsuch.
What a sweet little vintage toaster cover! Check out this Vintage 1950s Kitchen Toaster Appliance Cover
from seller livinintheboonies.
Oh my gosh , I am SO in love with this vintage ‘Cow Jumped Over The Moon’ nightlight! Check out this Vintage 1950s Hey Diddle Diddle Night Light
from seller geridan.
This vintage wall art is so cool…and a great starting price too! Check out this Vintage Mid Century Modern Set of 3 Wood Wall Plaques
from seller gogomodgrl.
Here is just one of the ultra FABULOUS paintings being offered by El Gato Gomez this week! Check out this El Gato Gomez Painting Mid Century Modern Retro Tiki Interior
and be sure to check out all of the other great paintings by El Gato Gomez
too! LOVE that tiki mask Gato!!!!
Isn’t this Mirro Medallion platter just amazing – and it still has the original box too!!! Check out this Vintage Mirro Medallion Carving and Serving Platter Unused
from seller cragonlsnt.
These 1970s kitchen canisters are so groovy! Check out this Vintage Retro 1970s Kitchen Canister Set
from seller lang6625.
What a cute little turquoise stool! Check out this Vintage 1950s Mid Century Turquoise Vinyl Footstool
from seller mikemac86.
This wall calendar is not vintage, but I thought it was so neat I wanted to post it up here anyway….all the images are so cute aren’t they! Check out this Vintage Inspired Pink Kitchen Calendar
from seller phibbuscar.
Oh how cool…….new old stock vintage towels! Check out these Vintage Unused Royal Terry Retro 50s Kitchen Dishtowels
from seller handpickedbooks.
Eeeeeeeeeeee!!!! LOVE the poodles!!!! Check out this Vintage Retro Set of 2 50s Poodle Chalkware Plaques
from seller beakerless.
I just love this Vintage Retro Cannon Kitchen Dish Towel Set
from seller ppmargie.
Have you been looking for the perfect set of new old stock vintage flannel pajamas? This might be just the set for you! Check out these Vintage 50s 60s New Old Stock Ladies Flannel Pajamas
from seller alys*lakeside*attic.
What a fabulous vintage light! Check out this Vintage Mid Century Modern Blonde Wall Pendant Lamp
from seller 1031girl.
If I was ambitious enough to knit my own socks I’d be all over this great vintage kit! Check out this Vintage Bear Brand Nylon Argyle Sock Kit
from seller joesdaughter.
Totally, totally love this vintage magnetic bulletin board! Check out this Vintage Maggie Magnetic Retro Magnetic Bulletin Board
from seller elbysales.
Lastly, you must check out these amaze-balls Vintage Mid Century Modern Majestic Table Lamps
from seller teaberryhometreasures.
Have a great weekend y’all!
*Disclaimer: No Pattern Required is part of the eBay Partner Network, and that means that when you click on our eBay links we may earn a very small commission.
sablemable
February 16, 2013 at 10:12 am
OMG! The lamps, the Kromex set, the pendant light, even the argyle socks! I’m swooning, Saraaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!!!!!
Great finds as always!
Sara In AZ
February 16, 2013 at 4:01 pm
Thanks Sable! Those lamps are pretty much killing me…want SO bad! 😉
Selina
February 16, 2013 at 10:37 am
Oh Sara!
Where to even start?! The poodle chalkware plaques -natch! But i love the guitar shaped plaques also -and the wall pendant lamp, and the canon kitchen towel set! Its all gorgeous!
But all of these pale into insignificance now i’ve seen that hey diddle diddle night light – Wow. Just WOW!!
Sara In AZ
February 16, 2013 at 4:02 pm
I had a feeling you’d like those poodle plaques Selina! 🙂 But I know, that Hey Diddle Diddle light…..completely to die for!!! Love it!!!!!!!!!
Jessica
February 16, 2013 at 1:01 pm
So I put some of these on my watch list maybe my husband will take pity on me?
Sara In AZ
February 16, 2013 at 4:04 pm
Oooohhhhhhh, Jessica – let me know if your husband does take pity on you 🙂 ……I’m dying to see what you get!
Sherree
February 16, 2013 at 6:11 pm
You and I must have similar tastes; nearly every week one of the items you have listed is on my “watch” list on Ebay 🙂
Sara In AZ
February 16, 2013 at 11:11 pm
No way……really Sherree?!?!? That is kinda wild isn’t it! Yeah, I guess we do have VERY similar tastes! So I’m curious – which item is it this week????????? If you want to tell…….. 🙂