Welcome
{ 9 comments… add one }
Psyched to be your 1st comment! Awaiting your future posts with baited breath.
Hey Joselin,
Great stuff!!
I think the only thing thats not to clear here is: What do I use these technology for?
I know you use this stuff day in and day out so you probably intuitively know the answer. For the rest of and those who might be getting into blogging how does this help my company?
Is this a sales tool or a part of the marketing? Clearing that might help us understand why these tools are so great and why we should use them.
Keep up the great work!
PS Commenting with facebook isn't working.
@JoselinMane I love the video. How did you do it? Can I just copy everything you do from now on?
Signed,
In Awe
@JoselinMane I love the video. How did you do it? Can I just copy everything you do from now on?
Signed,
In Awe
Thank you for being the first to comment! Also thank you for your patience in my 1 year non-blogging experiment!
Nelson,
Thanks for the comment and question. Also thank you for your patience in my 1 year non-blogging experiment!
You use the technology for a much more productive business or in some cases lifestyle.
The idea is doing less with more.
For business blogging can be used for a variety of reasons. One of the most essential is to demonstrate your commitment to your market place by consciously providing value information.
Once you show you care, are committed and your expertise in the field it’s much easier to get more business.
People do business with those they know, like, and trust and Blogging is a great scalable tool to build those three things.
I don’t think it’s either a Sales tool or a marketing tool I think it’s an essential business tool that allows a brand to comment on their evolving industry.
I will look into the Facebook issue thanks.
Sarah,
Also thank you for your patience in my 1 year non-blogging experiment!
I appreciate the comment about the video. Well now that my non-blogging experiment is over you can
I’m looking for the PowerPoint slide you presented at the ALPFA Social Networking event in June 2010. It was a flower of social media logos that presents categories in color coated petals. I am the recruiter for Big Brothers Big Sisters in eastern Massachusetts, we’re struggling with multiple agendas and audiences. Thinking we should we have several accounts to serve donors, volunteers and others who may not want every tweet and thought that crosses our minds. I’m sure I’ll find it once I post a commment
aschaad@bbbsmb.org