WACHUSETT REGIONAL HIGH SCHOOL
Interim Principal: Harold M. Lane Jr. Assistant Principals: Catherine A. Astrella, John J. Creamer, Roberta G. Lojko (Guidance Services), James M. Pedone Grades: 9-12 June 2006 Enrollment: 1,876 Anticipated Sept. 2006 Enrollment: 1,941 Breakdown by Town: Holden, 843; Paxton, 198; Princeton, 157; Rutland, 393; Sterling, 350 Number of staff members: 160.6
STAFF CHANGES: (Retirees) Norman Anderson, Jack Farley, Nancy Gallo, Stephen Hair, Susan LoConto, Evan Tsoules, Peter Weis; (Resignations) Jennifer Collard, Caroline Miller, Davelyn Hays, Wylie CulhaneMorini, Erin Mahoney, Suzanne Richardson; (Transferred) Joseph Vandergrift, Lida Seremeth; (Leave of absence) Laura Cleary, Cynthia Gustafsen, Mary Sanfaon (effective 10/1/06), Jennifer Schold (Semester 1), Erin Shaughnessy-Zeena; (Returning from leave of absence) Sarah King; (Appointments) Harold M. Lane, Jr., interim principal; Roberta Lojko, assistant principalguidance services; Allison Connors, guidance counselor; (faculty) Rebecca Alty , foreign language teacher (Semester 1); Ellen Beccia, Melissa LaCroix, April Prucnal, Mary Redford (math teachers); Ruth Briggs, special education teacher; Irini Cary, foreign language teacher (effective 10/1/06); Susan Coomey, R. Timothy Connors, school psychologists; Andrew Costa, Freshman Seminar; Sherri DerKazarian, music teacher; Sharon DiFranza, Freshman Seminar; Amanda Fitzgerald and Susan Johnson, science teachers; Alicia Jasiekiewicz, Justin McKay, Jeffrey Moses, social studies teachers; Brian Keddy, Rachael Lochner, art teachers; Lisa Oliner, English teacher; Linda St. Jean, family and consumer science teacher; Derek Van Oudenhove, physical education teacher.
PRINCIPAL'S MESSAGE: Perhaps Yogi Berra said it best when he uttered the phrase, "It's déj vu all over again." With Dr. Pandiscio asking me to fill in as interim principal this year, this phrase certainly hits home. I am appreciative of Dr. Pandiscio's faith in me and hope that I can help the high school, and especially the student body and faculty, to weather another year that will have its difficulties due to continuing construction. Students will have to share lockers again this year and we may have to move students and teachers more than once as new "old" parts of the building are scheduled for renovation.
The good news is that more of the "new" building will be ready for occupancy as the year moves along and the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel should get brighter and brighter. Except for punch-list items, this year should see the end of the reconstruction era and generations of Wachusett students can proudly look forward to receiving an education in a building that will truly be state of the art.
As for this year, there will be a full academic program and continued planning for the implementation of an upper and lower house system in 2007-08. As usual, a full range of athletic, drama, music and other student activities will be in abundance even though, while construction continues, some of these may have to be accomplished at "away" venues. We will all do our best to insure that the delivery of education and all it entails to the 1,900+ students who enter our door each morning is first rate.