Welcome to usbfever.com! We provide services to you subject to the following conditions. If you visit or shop at usbfever.com, you accept these conditions. Please read them carefully.
Your use of this site indicates your acceptance of these terms and conditions. Your placement of an order indicates your acceptance of these terms and conditions. Your submittal of any purchase order to usbfever.com indicates acceptance of these terms and conditions. These terms and conditions shall supercede any subsequent terms or conditions included with any purchase order, whether or not such terms or conditions are signed by usbfever.com. usbfever limited reserves the right to make changes to this site and these terms and conditions at any time without prior notice to visitors and customers.
This site is fully owned and operated by usbfever limited. Unless otherwise specified, all materials appearing on this site, including the text, site design, logos, graphics, icons, and images, as well as the selection, assembly and arrangement thereof, are the sole property of usbfever.com, Copyright 2007-2011, ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. All audio and video clips are the sole property of usbfever.com. or their respective content providers. All software used on the site is the sole property of usbfever.com usbfever.com's prior written permission. All rights not expressly granted herein are reserved. Any unauthorized use of the materials appearing on this site may violate copyright, trademark and other applicable laws and could result in criminal or civil penalties.
usbfever.com is a registered trademark or service mark of usbfever limited. All custom graphics, icons, logos and service names are registered trademarks, trademarks or service marks of usbfever limited. All other trademarks or service marks are property of their respective owners. The use of any usbfever trademark or service mark without usbfever.com's express written consent is strictly prohibited.
Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability as to Products Sold
usbfever.com is committed to provide high quality electronics / accessories to our customers. usbfever.com, as a retailer of quality oem and aftermarket products, shall not be responsible for any errors or omissions that might be contained within this web site. usbfever.com reserves the right to make changes to its web site without notice. Accordingly, all usbfever.com and third party information is provided "as is". usbfever.com. is not responsible for the content of any other web site linked to any usbfever.com web site. Links are provided as internet navigation tools only.usbfever.com makes no representations or warranties, either express or implied, of any kind with respect to products sold on the usbfever.com sites. Under no condition will usbfever.com be liable for any damages whatsoever, and in particular usbfever.com will not be liable for special, indirect, consequential, or incidental damages, or damages for lost properties, loss of revenue, or loss of use, arising out of or related to any usbfever.com web site or the information contained in it, whether such damages arise in contract, negligence, tort, under statute, in equity, at law or otherwise. The sole and exclusive maximum liability to usbfever limited arising from any product sold on the usbfever.com sites shall be the price of the product ordered.
Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability as to the usbfever.com Web Sites
The usbfever.com web site and the materials therein are provided by usbfever limited, which makes no representations or warranties, either express or implied, of any kind with respect to the usbfever.com sites, their operations, contents, information, materials. usbfever.com expressly disclaims all warranties, express or implied, of any kind with respect to the site or their use, including but not limited to merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. You agree that usbfever.com, its directors, officers, employees or other representatives shall not be liable for damages arising from the operation, content or use of the usbfever.com site. You agree that this limitation of liability is comprehensive and applies to all damages of any kind, including without limitation direct, indirect, compensatory, special, incidental, punitive and consequential damages.
Typographical Errors
usbfever.com attempts to be as accurate as possible. However, usbfever.com does not warrant that product descriptions or other content of this site is accurate, complete, reliable, current, or error-free. If a product offered by usbfever.com itself is not as described, your sole remedy is to return it in unused condition.
In the event a product is listed at an incorrect price or with incorrect information due to typographical error or error in pricing or product information received from our suppliers, usbfever.com shall have the right to refuse or cancel any orders placed for product listed at the incorrect price. usbfever.com shall have the right to refuse or cancel any such orders whether or not the order has been confirmed and your credit card charged. If your credit card has already been charged for the purchase and your order is canceled, usbfever.com shall in proper timing, issue a credit to your credit card (or payment) account in the amount of the charge.
Order Acceptance Policy
Your receipt of an electronic or other form of order confirmation does not signify our acceptance of your order, nor does it constitute confirmation of our offer to sell. usbfever.com reserves the right at any time after receipt of your order to accept or decline your order for any reason. usbfever.com reserves the right at any time after receipt of your order, without prior notice to you, to supply less than the quantity you ordered of any item. We may require additional verifications or information before accepting any order of any amount.
Sales Taxes
Current there is no applicable sales tax.
Jurisdiction and Venue
You agree that any legal action brought against usbfever limited shall be governed by the laws of the Hong Kong SAR without regard to its conflict of law principles. You agree that the sole jurisdiction and venue for any litigation arising from your use of or orders made on the usbfever.com sites shall be an appropriate court located in Hong Kong SAR.
Risk of Loss
Title to products passes from usbfever.com to customer on shipment from facility of usbfever limited. Loss or damage that occurs during shipping by a carrier selected either by usbfever.com or by Customer is Customer's responsibility.
Children
usbfever.com does not sell products for purchase by children. We sell children's products for purchase by adults. If you are under 18, you may use usbfever.com only with the involvement of a parent or guardian.