I just started a new blog on my ultralight gear. My gear list in all it's glory is located on: each item of gear, I'm writing an in-depth review for the item and how we have used it. Would love to get feedback and the site and our gear and/or comments from people on how we can fine tune.Currently my wifes pack is 7.5 lbs base weight, and mine is 10.5 lbs.Thanks!-Brett
Edited by brettmarl on 09/09/2006 15:59:48 MDT.
Brett, Your BLOG looks good.You should put the size of your items where their is one such as pants, shoes, jacket etc. There is a golf like "handicap' for anyone that wears larger then size medium or size 9.5 shoe. Sure.I think you might recheck some of your math. Not sure but some totals look low. Don't trust the posted weightof gear, weigh it yourself if you haven't.Why is your pack list so heavy?
I agree, nice looking blog. Bill is right on listing the sizes, other than that....looks great!
Brett - nice list, and nice format!(One small typo: it currently says "Cloudburt" for the tent.)
Edited by slnsf on 09/09/2006 18:08:48 MDT.
Great site with good info. I'm trying to decide between the GoLite Infinity and Jam and I think after reading your blog, that the Jam should be plenty big.I'm interested to see what's in your first aid kit.Also, any issues with the water purification tablets? I currently use a MSR miniworks pump and I'm looking to lighten up...
At first I thought you might not be warm enough as I reviewed your North Cascade hike, then I recounted your layers. Very nice site! What I was a little confused about was the opening statement of getting four days of backpacking gear into a pack, yet at the bottom the food for two was estimated for three days. However I now understand that these are not mutually exclusive statements.
thanks for the feedback.i fixed the cloudburt typo (thanks), and the 4 vs. 3 days. ai also completed all my gear posts - including the innards of my first aid kit and my experiences with the MicroPUR tabs.the weights listed should be the ones that i weighed myself (unless, i've mis-typed in some areas)bill - you say to check my math with "Why is your pack list so heavy?". not sure what you are refering to here.great idea on including the sizes.
You must login to post.
MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED TO POST: You must be a Forum, Annual or Lifetime Member to post messages in the backpackinglight.com forums.
SUBSCRIBE NOW »