Astor-Bannerman create an accessible Changing Places as part of a large scale regeneration project at the historic Guildhall at Brangwyn Hall in Swansea
The Guildhall has undergone a huge amount of regeneration work to sympathetically modernize this stunning multipurpose entertainment venue whilst keeping and restoring many of the original features.
Incorporating accessible features has been incredibly important for this project and the venue boasts a number of wheelchair friendly entrances and exits which are all clearly marked.
There is also the added benefit of a dropped bar area for wheelchair users to order their interval drinks as well as a fantastic Changing Places facility.
Astor-Bannerman were called upon to help the Guildhall with their Changing Places project and guide them through each stage.
An initial site visit took place by our Product Specialist Advisor which was followed up with CAD drawings of the room layout and a quotation for the required equipment.
All of these services were provided free of charge and meant that the installation which took place in the Spring 2014 went ahead smoothly.
Once the preliminary work and electrics were in place, a qualified Astor-Bannerman engineer visited the site to ensure everything was correct and ready for installation in accordance with our pre installation requirements.
The specialist equipment chosen for the Guildhall Changing Places toilet included the Astor-Bannerman bariatric Changing Table CT190 and the A2B Overhead XY Ceiling hoist.
The CT190 Changing Table is fully height adjustable at the touch of a handset and folds away neatly against the wall when not in use.
The stretcher is made of a special high tension tear resistant material with drain holes and integrated water tray for ease of showering. A tilting backrest and removable mattress were also chosen for additional comfort during changing.
The Astor-Bannerman A2B 2 Function Ceiling Hoist was chosen for the Changing Places facility for its full room coverage and ease of use from the simple handset control.
The hoist allow users to be transferred from toilet to Changing Table or wheelchair with ease and dignity.
Changing Places toilets comfortable.
“Everyone deserves dignity when they are out and about” – Ms Evans
If you would like any more information on any of our equipment or free services available, or if you are considering installing a Changing Places toilet, contact us today to speak to one of the team.