49 CFR 225.15 - Accidents/incidents not to be reported.
The following accidents/incidents are not reportable:
(a) With respect to persons other than railroad employees. A railroad is not to report injuries that occur at highway-rail grade crossings that do not involve the presence or operation of on-track equipment, or the presence of railroad employees then engaged in the operation of a railroad;
(b) With respect to railroad employees on duty. A railroad is not to report the following injuries to or illnesses of a railroad employee as Worker on Duty—Employee (Class A), if any of the conditions in this paragraph (b) are met. (These exceptions apply only to Worker on Duty—Employee (Class A) and do not affect a railroad's obligation to report these injuries and illnesses as other types of persons (Employee Not On Duty (Class B); Passenger on Trains (Class C); Nontrespassers-On Railroad Property (Class D); Trespassers (Class E)), or a railroad's obligation to maintain a “Railroad Employee Injury/Illness Record” (Form FRA F 6180.98 or alternative railroad-designed form)).
(1) The injury or illness occurred in or about living quarters and an event or exposure not arising from the operation of a railroad was the cause;
(2) At the time of the injury or illness, the employee was present in the work environment as a member of the general public rather than as an employee; or
(3) The injury or illness is caused by a motor vehicle accident and occurs on a company parking lot or company access road while the employee is commuting to or from work.
(c) With respect to railroad employees on or off duty. A railroad is not to report the following injuries to or illnesses of a railroad employee, Worker on Duty—Employee (Class A) or Employee Not on Duty (Class B), if any of the following conditions in this paragraph (c) are met:
(1) The injury or illness involves signs or symptoms that surface at work but result solely from a non-work-related event or exposure that occurs outside the work environment;
(2) The injury or illness results solely from voluntary participation in a wellness program or in a medical, fitness, or recreational activity such as blood donation, physical examination, flu shot, exercise class, racquetball, or baseball;
(3) The injury or illness is solely the result of an employee eating, drinking, or preparing food or drink for personal consumption. However, if the employee is made ill by ingesting food contaminated by workplace contaminants (such as lead), or gets food poisoning from food supplied by the employer, the case would be considered work-related and reported as either a Worker on Duty—Employee (Class A) or Employee Not on Duty (Class B) depending on the employees duty status;
(4) The injury or illness is solely the result of an employee doing personal tasks (unrelated to their employment) at the establishment outside of the employee's assigned working hours;
(5) The injury or illness is solely the result of personal grooming, self medication for a non-work-related condition, or is intentionally self-inflicted (except that for FRA reporting purposes a railroad shall not exclude an accountable or reportable injury or illness that is the result of a suicide or attempted suicide);
(6) The illness is the common cold or flu (Note: contagious diseases such as tuberculosis, brucellosis, hepatitis A, or plague are considered work-related if the employee is infected at work); or
(7).
(d) With respect to contractors and volunteers. A railroad is not to report injuries to contractors and volunteers that are listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph only, an exception listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) referencing “work environment” is construed to mean for contractors and volunteers only, on property owned, leased, operated over or maintained by the railroad.
(e) With respect to rail equipment accidents/incidents. A railroad is not to report rail equipment accidents/incidents if the conditions in this paragraph are met. (This exception does not affect a railroad's obligation to maintain records of accidents/incidents as required by § 225.25 (Form FRA F 6180.97, “Initial Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Record”)).
(1) Cars derailed on industry tracks by non-railroad employees or non-railroad employee vandalism, providing there is no involvement of railroad employees; and
(2) Damage to out of service cars resulting from high water or flooding (e.g., empties placed on a storage or repair track). This exception does not apply if such cars are placed into a moving consist and as a result of this damage a reportable rail equipment accident results.
[75 FR 68906,.