On Saturday, November 14, it appears that president-elect Joe Biden and first lady-in-waiting Dr. Jill Biden spent their day like many of us did—on a bike ride.
The pair—along with four members of their secret service detail, riding Cannondale hardtails—cruised around the paved trails of Cape Henlopen State Park in Delaware, before a meeting with Biden’s transition team. Members of the media and photographers took videos and photos of the group—in this video, you can hear Yahoo News reporter Brittany Shepherd asking, “Are you any closer to making a cabinet decision?” to which Biden responds, “Yes.”
Sign up for Bicycling All Access, and we’ll let you know every time Biden is spotted on a bike
Biden appeared to be riding a Trek FX hybrid, and a well-loved one from the looks of it. From what we could see in the photos, it had a Bontrager cockpit, linear pull rim brakes, and a rusty chain well past its prime. He came prepared for the ride with a headlight, and all of the bike’s reflectors are still intact (he’s the president-elect, he can do what he wants)..
We can’t tell exactly what bike Jill is riding, but it looks to be similar to Biden’s—something functional and affordable. Affixed to her handlebar is an Axiom Seymour Handlebar Bag created with fabric made out of recycled fishing nets, as well as a small headlight. While Biden’s bike has a rigid fork, Jill’s is equipped with an RST suspension fork, leading us to believe she likes to get a little more sendy than the president-elect.
Jill is wearing a Liv Rev Comp MIPS helmet and a jacket with the logo of Pelotonia, a charity ride in Ohio that raises money for cancer research, at which Biden gave a send-off speech in 2017. And everyone riding in this group is wearing a mask, which is important, given the rising cases of COVID-19 around the country.
The last time the media was shouting to Biden on a bike was in August, when he was riding the same Trek in Delaware. Fox News’ Peter Doocy asked the then-candidate if he’d chosen a running partner yet. Biden said he had, and when Doocy asked who, he jokingly responded “You!” (spoiler alert: it was not him).
We’re stoked that our president-to-be and future first lady are into cycling, and will be on high alert for any more #RidinWithBiden in the news.