Starting Point
Ansal Plaza Kundli/ FairVacanz Hotel
After a gap of 2 years Delhi Randonneus is back with its signature 1200K LRM ride The CKB 1200 Climbs Ka Baap.
Registration Link -
This is an officially sanctioned Audax ride and will be homologated by LRM ( all Brevet rides over 1200 come under LRM) and has been mentioned and endorsed by LEL for a must attempt ride by all LEL bound Indian Riders.
Read here -
2018 they were 23 riders who confluenced from all over India and of which only 3 saw the finish line.....(One of them was on his Archaic Rod Brake 25 kilo single speed steel bike) but all 3 were late and hence could not be Homologated.
2019 this Brevet got Conquered with in Time limits by only 2 Riders …. The Shaw Brothers.
Till now CKB has only 2 Homologations!!!!!
It’s time to bite the challenge again and conquer the mighty Himalays.
The Route -
Face Book Link-
Here is the break up
Climb Ka Baap ( CKB 1200) with a climb of 37729.659 feet to challenge the climb.
Here is the refined map Break up - CCD Galleria Market Gurgaon-Delhi - Ambala- Himalayan Xway - Timber Trail- Parwanoo- CHD Kurli Xway - Kurli Kirathpur - Una- Jhalera - Kangra- Dharamshala- Mcleod Ganj- Dharamshala- Gopalpur- Palampur- Baijnath- Bir Square- Baijnath-Palampur- Gopalpur-Dharamshala- McLeodganj- Kangra-Pragpur Jhalera- Una- Kiratpur- Kurli- Timber Trail - Ambala- Karnal - Bollywood Dhaba- Rai /Finish outskirts of delhi
The route will take you through towns of Ambala,Chandigarh,Ropar, The sacred town of Guru Gobind Singh Ji ...Aanadpur Saheb, Nangal of Bhakrananga Dam, Una, Kangra, Daramshala, the abode of HH DalaiLama ...Mcleodganj, Palampur apple orchards and tea estates , the holy town of Baijnath and Para Gliding paradise of Bir.
Entire Dhauladhar range will be on left side from Dharamshala to Bir for 80 kms and back for 80 kms on the right side and its breath taking mesmerizing
One will also get to see the Highest Cricket stadium in the world at Dharamshala on this ride.
See you all at the start line
The Registration cost Includes Drop Bag carriage, Hydration and nutrition at TCs, Night stay on Night 2 in Dharamshala.
YTC=Yet to Confirm, DNS=Did Not Start, DNF=Did Not Finish, LF=Late Finish
Event Fee: 12500