Private equity should be in its element. The European industry is still sitting on EUR75 billion of capital to deploy, according to data provider Preqin, while investors' hunt for yield is supporting a healthy debt market. Yet deals by European private-equity firms, including acquisitions and exits, fell 22% to $124 billion in 2012. Aside from 2009, that makes it the worst year since 2003, says Dealogic. And 2013 may not be much better.
From distressed sellers to battered stock-market valuations, there ought to be no shortage of opportunities for private equity. Indeed, some buyout groups are still in deal mode. Last year Advent International acquired Frankfurt-listed retailer Douglas for EUR1.5 billion and PAI Partners bought Milan-listed sunglasses maker Marcolin for EUR200 million. But others are sitting on their hands: One of Europe's biggest buyout firms, Apax Partners, did no deals at all.
So what's holding deal-making back? Companies aren't doing big scale M&A, reducing the supply of non-core businesses that historically provided private equity's bread and butter. CEOs are also reluctant to sell businesses that will cause earnings to drop, or prompt write-downs, say investment bankers. Elsewhere, changes to the U.K.'s takeover rules have zapped the take-private market. If talks are leaked, the would-be bidder must state it is considering an offer and then has 28 days to make it formal or walk away for six months. Take-privates worth $2.3 billion accounted for just 10% of private-equity deals by value in the U.K. last year, down from 58% in 2007, notes Dealogic. Instead, private equity firms could remain reliant on shuffling companies between themselves: secondary buyouts in Europe accounted for one third of private equity's acquisitions by value in 2012, notes Dealogic.
Nor is selling proving any easier. Private equity firms are struggling to find trade buyers for some large assets, while the stock market is fickle. CVC Capital Partners, which shelved plans for an IPO of German printing ink maker Flint Group in 2010, failed to sell on auction last year. And Permira ended a sales process for frozen foods business Iglo Group when two private-equity bidders clubbed together, disrupting the auction.
Investors are increasingly having to accept that a generation of assets will be held by private equity for a decade, with any cash returns coming by way of refinancing. That's hardly what many signed up for.