SAVE We used to live in a world where guys make the first move, taking in the knight-in-shining-armor role. More often than not, girls play the waiting game, and saying “I like you” before the guy does was considered to be unladylike. But yay! Women are more empowered now, and gone are the days when they wouldn’t say anything and let guys do all the hard work. So girls, if you like someone, tell them how you feel, regardless if you’re the first to make the move. Bring your A game because here are reasons why you shouldn’t be afraid to do so: 1. It’s the 21st century.We’re already in the modern dating era where being old school isn’t so cool anymore. No matter what the traditions say before, we should always welcome and embrace change. Yay to being progressive! 2. Guys also like the kilig factor from time to time.While guys accept the challenge of being the one to say it first throughout the years, it’s now time for girls to return the favor. Guys are human beings – they like getting kilig or being flattered, too. 3. A little confidence never hurt anybody.Being confident is one of the most attractive qualities anyone can possess which also makes you feel good about yourself. And telling someone you like him first just means you know in yourself what you’re looking for – the lesser tendency to settle for less. 4. There are still torpe guys out there.Not all guys are courageous enough and have all the guts to come out and admit their feelings for you. They can be very shy too. Yes, the concept of being torpe still exists today. Taking the initiative may go a long way. 5. Life’s too short to not say how you feel.Don’t waste your time and wait too long before telling him how you feel. Grab the chance while you can and go for it. So what if you’re making the first move? As they say, you only live once. Yes, dating rules were created before for a reason. But now that we are in a place where we aim to achieve gender equality, it’s time to make some adjustments. So the next time you come across the opportunity of admitting your feelings to the guy you like, don’t be afraid to do so. With the right timing and proper mindset – you definitely got this! ALSO READ: The Six Fix: New Age Dating Terms You Need To Know Banner photography by Brooke Cagle on Unsplash. GIFs from Giphy.