What Katie Did & Vogue Russia
photos: Solve Sundsbo, images via here
This post is inspired entirely by the What Katie Did bullet bra that Claudia Schiffer is wearing in Vogue Russia. Not only are we so happy to see the continued press from this amazing brand, but we were also so excited to discover this gorgeous editorial as a result! Aren't the colors just amazing?
Granted, What Katie Did is the only lingerie credit in these images, but they were so pretty we had to share most of them. And yes, we love sharing Claudia Schiffer pictures!
To purchase the bullet bra you see above, click here.
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
Make sure to follow us on Facebook, Twitter, Bloglovin' or Google Friend Connect
Shop with us at Faire Frou Frou
24 fabulous comments:
i remember those cone bras when madonna wore them!! dont think they should come back as a trendy item :|
Interesting photoshoots!
If U are curious, check out my newer giveaway!
X♥X♥
oh wow... reminds me of Madonna's Gaultier bras back in the 90's- it was fun! :))
xoxo
Very 50's!
Absolutely love it!
xxx
Ah...the gorgeous Claudia...
I want that leopard print coat!!! I'm obsessed with anything leopard print!!! =)
These pictures are EXCELLENT! You have a real eye for beauty!
That coat is gorgeous. Love the second image.
very madonna so i guess all of eighties is makin a come back
she is goregous
thanks for the comment visit agian soon
XX
Vi from Cali
Claudia just looks fabulous! wishing you and your family a fabulously blessed Thank Giving! thank you for your comment.
God Bless,
Charmaine
yeah, the color looks even prettier in person. i can't wait to paint my nails! =P
great post! i love claudia! :)
katthroatworld.blogspot.com
i would love to get my hands on a really great fitting bullet bra.
love this inspiration
thanks for sharing darling
and thanks for the sweet comments
-cma
cosmicaroline.blogspot.com
vibeing madonna, looks great!
Hello girls, no matter what Claudia wears, she will always look stunning!
Great post.
Thanks for entering the giveaway on my blog, best wishes for the draw!
Have a blessed Thanks Giving.
Colin.
Wow... Beautiful pictures! So glamourous!
xx
I love the vintage vibe. It's all so gorgeous, especially that bra.
xo,
Christina
Fabulous Finds Gal
I love WKD...they have such amazing stuff!
these are great pics! i love seeing fashion mags from different countries! :)
Gorgeous editorial! :)
xx
these shots are so amazing! and i love the bullet bra!
and thank you so much for your sweet comment. i really appreciate it. :)
Love the bullet bra look... so need one now. I also adore seeing Claudia Schiffer on a magazine cover. Such a gorgeous woman and one of my all time favorite super models.
Claudia is amazing. I swear, she looks the same now as she did years ago when she was considered the new face of fashion. I was watching The Portrait of Dorian Gray the other night, and she definitely makes me think of that movie!
I love that the European Vogue's use models and not actresses for their covers and layouts!
Claudia is stunning-as always!
I am definitely sharing this blog!