Autumn greetings from the Molly Muriel Apothecary! We are happy to announce that the retail shop has extended our hours of operation.
New Hours:
Monday: 12:00 - 6:00pm
Tuesday: 12:00 - 6:00pm
Wednesday: 12:00 - 6:00pm
Thursday: 12:00 - 6:00pm
Friday: 12:00 - 6:00pm
Saturday: 12:00 - 6:00pm
Feel free to stop on by and check out all our products.
We are also excited to announce upcoming classes that we will be hosting at the shop, 11049 SE 21st Ave, Milwaukie, OR 97222 (map).
November 5th: Candle Making
November 12th: Kokedama Making Workshop
November 13th: Tie-Dye Your Own Scarf
See below for more information!
CANDLE MAKING WORKSHOP
Join us for our first ever candle making workshop. Upon arrival you will be given the vessels for candle making. You choose the scent and pour your own candles. Hang out with friends while your candles dry. We will have wine and snacks.
Workshop starts at 6pm, no RSVP needed, simply drop in. The studio will be open until 8:30 and last pour will be at 7:30, so get here before then.
When: Wednesday, November 5th
Ages: 16+
Cost: $20 per person
KOKEDAMA MAKING WORKSHOP
Kokedama is a traditional Japanese art form that uses moss as a container for a plant. Translated in English, a “moss ball”, sometimes known as a string garden, is a ball of soil covered with moss in which an ornamental plant grows. The idea has its origins in Japan where Kokedama are very popular.
Join us Wednesday, November 12thand create your very own lovely, self-contained hanging fern. Be ready to get your hands dirty! You will take home your hand-crafted treasure.
When: Wednesday, November 12th at 6:00pm
Ages: 16+
Cost: $20.00 per student
Limit 12 people
*Pre-payment is required. Email info@mollymuriel.com with your class request and we will email you back an invoice which you can pay through Paypal. Once your payment is received your spot in the workshop will be held.
Tie-Dye Your Own Scarf!
Discover the fun of tie-dye and make your own scarf for fall! Each student will be provided one white jersey scarf to dye. Rachel will demonstrate a variety of different tying methods and walk you through the steps of tie-dye. Lots of dye colors will be available to choose from, so you’re sure to make a scarf you will love!
Note: Because tie-dye is a 24 hour process, you will take your dyed scarf home in a plastic bag with simple washing instructions.
When: Thursday, November 13th at 6:00pm
Ages: 12+
Cost: $30.00 per student
Class requirements: Tie-dye can be a messy process, so please come wearing clothes/shoes you wouldn’t mind getting permanent dye on. Plastic aprons and gloves will be available for student use.
*Pre-payment is required. Email info@mollymuriel.com with your class request and we will email you back an invoice which you can pay through Paypal. Once your payment is received your spot in the workshop will be held.
About the Instructor:
Rachel Beyer is a local artist, crafter and creative maker who loves bright colors, nature, daydreaming and of course, tie-dye. She also has her own art and greeting card line called, Camp Smartypants and runs a creative blog called, Adventures In Making.
Warmly, the Molly Muriel Apothecary crew, Branda, Jade, Alissa, Rachel, and Molly!