Keep the cycle going. Keep the energy flowing.
If you feel blessed today and want to give back to your community, keep us in mind on this special day.
Annual Member Report
At the close of 2020, we surveyed our members to better understand their experience and identify ways we could improve our support. The report includes aggregate demographic data, career progression insights, member testimonies, and helpful tips for tech employers investing in workplace equity.
Empowering and connecting Latinas since 2014
We are a non-profit organization with the aim to connect, support, and empower Latina women working in tech. We work hand in hand with top technology companies to create safe spaces for learning, mentorship and recruitment.
Chapters cities
Folks
Events
Our chapter cities
Join your nearest chapter, and enjoy our local meetups and events surrounded by other Latinas
Would you like to become a sponsor for our 2022 Summit?
Following a successful 2021 Summit, we are currently offering sponsorship opportunities. Don't miss it and be part of this great movement!
The Summit will take place May 18-20, 2022.
Upcoming Events
List of Events
A Day in the Life of a User Experience Researcher
User Experience Research (UXR). You may have heard the term. You have seen a job posting on LinkedIn. But what is User Experience Research? What types of work does a user experience researcher do? What is their day-to-day life like? How do you become a user experience researcher? In this panel “A Day in the Life of a User Researcher,” researchers from Adobe share a bit about their world, as well as the many, unique paths to get there. User…
Utilizing your Network & Community for Career Development
We understand that networking isn't at the top of everyone's to-do list. It can be uncomfortable and depending on your personality — incredibly draining. However, there's no denying the power a strong professional network can have over your career success. When it's done well, networking will not only help you create a strong community but will give you a competitive edge throughout every stage of your career. Join Slack and Latinas in Tech on Thursday, December 2, 2021 as we…
Launch to IBM Z…
Unleash Your Inner Leader: Lightning Talks to help you step into a Leadership Role…
Meet the Latina Helping to Build A Diverse Tech Culture at WarnerMedia
8 Business Areas Where You Should Be Using an App
