Drivers have been reacting to the switch-on of a new "throughabout" in Yeovil on Thursday (February 7), and it's safe to say the new 42 traffic light junction has not gone down well.
Words used to describe the new creation include, "awful", "ludicrous", "confusing", "frustrating" and "stupid", as locals vent their anger at what is seen by many as "a waste of taxpayers money".
After the new system at Westlands junction was switched on, five months later than originally planned, drivers reported queues were longer than they were before, while a local Ford employee has said that "not one" of the customers on his daily test drives understands the new lay-out.
Somerset County Council has claimed the new configuration would reduce queues by 75 per cent, while a councillor has described the new layout as "very simple".
However, angry drivers disagree and they have been making their views known to the council directly online.
Writing to the council, Stephen Bramley said: "Longest queues there have ever been at that roundabout.
"Slow clap to Somerset County Council for making an absolute pig's ear of the junction and wasting taxpayer's money. Bravo guys."
He added: "Next time, give the project to a local primary school, they couldn't possibly make as bad a hash of it as the brain dead planning department in Taunton."
The council has confirmed the junction will be "closely monitored" during the first few months and traffic lights can be adjusted to ensure they are working as efficiently as possible.
Take a look at plans for throughabout below.
Writing to the council, local resident Martin White said: "It was a complete farce when I tried to go through it tonight.
"No road markings coming out of Bunford Lane to suggest the correct lane use.
"Mixture of green lights with absolutely nowhere to go and cars trying to drive through each other as there was a traffic jam in the middle of the roundabout.
"It's only by sheer luck that I wasn’t spending the next few hours in A&E. The light sequencing was obviously not tested prior to going live."
Somerset Live could only find one positive comment on the new throughabout, from Peter Lovell, who wrote: "I braved it and I survived it ..it worked well for me today."
The busy Westlands roundabout has been transformed into a "throughabout" as part of the ongoing multi-million pound Western Corridor work in the town, and the improvements now see traffic travelling through the middle of the central island.
The throughabout was originally due to be operational more than a week ago (Tuesday, January 29), but a spokesman said this was pushed back due to bad weather, and Thursday (February, 7) was the revised switch-on date.
Take a look at some more views on the throughabout below.
Locals vent their anger at new throughabout
Locals have been getting in touch via the Somerset Live Facebook page to make their feelings known:
Ben King - "I think it’s great waiting at a red light on a roundabout when there’s no traffic at 9pm!"
Calley Duck-Bingham - "Literally the worst, most road rage antagonising thing to happen, ever."
Gloria Cox - "More money wasted by the Highways Department."
Shell Swaine - "The irony with all this work to help ease congestion etc....yet there’s a huge queue!"
Shaun Walters - "Is this the outcome of a use it or loose it budget? Absolute nonsense."
Sam Norris - "They did this same plan with the roundabout at junction 24 of the M5 with all the traffic lights, it didn't work and back fired to the point the council had wasted money and pulled most of the traffic lights out due to the bad congestion it was causing."
Simon Hadyn - "There was nothing wrong with what we had but now the time to get through that section of town has tripled. And it is going to end up an accident hot spot as it will confuse a lot of drivers out there."
Ian Trevor - "It’s like Blackpool illuminations at that end of Yeovil. I think the person that came up with the planning must have been p***ed out of his brain."
Somerset Live has approached Somerset County Council for comment on the reaction to the switch-on.
Council warns drivers to "pay close attention"
“It’s actually a very simple design"
Councillor John Woodman.”
A spokesman for the council added: ."
Improvements "will reduce queue lengths"
The council spokesman added: .
"These improvements increase the capacity of the junction and modelling predicts they will reduce future queue lengths down to around 14 cars at peak times, compared with queues of 65 cars if left as a roundabout."
Drivers urged to "take extra care".”
Current progress of Western Corridor project
It has been confirmed the new signalised Copse Road junction will be the next phase to be switched on.
Here's how the overall project is shaping up:
Bluebell roundabout - LATE : Completed in August 2018 (originally expected by March 2018)
Lysander Road junction - ON TIME : Completed before Christmas (originally expected between September 2018 and March 2019)
Copse Road junction - LATE : Latest forecast - "Early 2019" (Expected by Autumn 2018)
Westlands throughabout - LATE : Latest forecast - Thursday, February 6 (originally expected by September 2018)
Stourton Way area improvements - LATE : Latest forecast - "Early 2019" (originally expected by March 2018)
Western Avenue improvements - LATE : Latest forecast - "Early 2019" (originally expected by September 2018)
Preston Road Roundabout - LATE : Latest forecast - "June 2019" (originally expected by March .