Orgasmic Birth is founded by Debra Pascali-Bonaro and over the years she has had support, love, and assistance from her family, friends and colleagues around the world.
Debra Pascali-Bonaro, B.Ed., LCCE, PDT/BDT(DONA), Founder & President
Debra!
- BECOME A DOULA: Take a Workshop with Debra
- EXPECTING?
Megan Stark, Pleasure Coordinator
Megan’s passion for birth began after witnessing her dear friend’s birth wishes transform from fear to empowerment. Having always been fascinated by birth, she concluded that she had a calling to birth education, advocacy and support. After training as a birth and postpartum doula with Debra Pascali Bonaro, Megan continued to follow this path. Megan joined the Orgasmic Birth Team in September 2014 as an Administrative Assistant and has been truly honored to work with such an amazing group of people! Megan and her husband welcomed their precious baby boy into their lives in Spring of 2015, and she is so grateful to have found herself on this journeyduring this incredibly special time in her life.
Alicia Kornacker, Social Media Manager
Alicia is a full-time Birth Doula & Founder of “A Monarch Birth” and Prenatal Yoga instructor in Minneapolis, Minnesota. She describes her career as a doula as her “umbilical cord” – it’s the most brilliant avenue she’s found in her life that continuously pumps her with inspiration, passion and understanding. She feels so much gratitude for the opportunity to support, nurture and share such tender beautiful, and challenging moments with family’s as they birth. Alicia LOVES supporting the mission of Orgasmic Birth to help empower women to better understand and trust the power of their bodies and babies! She especially loves witnessing the change in her client’s as they fill up their minds and hearts with birthgasmic education, she says the transformation in their confidence is just so visible and exciting. When Alicia is not filling up her time supporting families in birth, teaching yoga or making Orgasmic Birth memes she’s generally with her doggy-daughter, Jewel, curled up on the couch and binging on great and not-so-great shows or out bouncing around the city.
Arp Laszlo, Web Development & Strategy Consultant
“That oil that you’re using on your back, it smells very nice.” Does that quote ring a bell? Arp has been working with Debra since 2008 when he was featured as a parent in the Orgasmic Birth movie and then recruited to design the first OBirth website. Debra and Arp met on the production of Orgasmic Birth when Debra captured the birth of Arp and his wife Trisha’s daughter, Juniper Snow! Many of us were charmed and amazed by the birth of Juniper Snow arriving hand first, parents standing upright in the shower stall. Trisha says “See, for the next birth we should install like a handrail like driven into the studs of the house.” Arp “Next birth, I want a lot bigger bathroom.” Arp continues to provide web development for the Orgasmic Birth and Pain to Power sites from his new home in Florida where he and Trisha and their 4 children now have a bigger bathroom.
Suzie Vitez, Graphic Designer
Suzie likes to take a personal approach to design, communicating directly with each client to
give their ideas a creative visual life.
Offering a piece that uses their voice
to speak to the audience is Suzie’s utmost goal. Suzie writes, “Working with clients who are passionate about what they do makes this a job I love, and Debra is definitely one of those people!” Suzie helped create the original design for the 2008 launch of the Orgasmic Birth movie.
Debra is so excited and GRATEFUL to our O-Birth Team for the birth today of our newest baby, the Pain to Power Online Childbirth Experience! Debra also wishes to thank Ellie Scarborough Brett, Rachel Barbic, Joe Valley, David Ford & Marissa Gouverne for all their help in gently guiding her along this path. “Thank you so much!! You are incredible and mean the world to me!” – Debra