What happened this week? Lots. And our friends at theSkimm have you covered with a run-down of the top headlines. (Want them delivered daily to your inbox? Sign up at theskimm.com )
Snooping
The Story
The ACLU is not quite over the revelation of the government’s surveillance programs and has filed a lawsuit regarding one of the programs.
theSKIMM
This is the first major lawsuit following the leaks about the government’s two big programs last week. The ACLU has already expressed its horror at the National Security Agency’s legit collection of phone records from Verizon. One problem the NSA might not have thought of? As luck would have it, the American Civil Liberties Union says it’s a Verizon customer and its constitutional rights have been violated . As for the other big leak—that the NSA also gets info from major internet companies— Google, Facebook, and Microsoft would like to tell users all about the government’s requests, but they can’t without the government’s permission. They have now officially asked for it.
Anything Uplifting?
Book sales are up! Sales of George Orwell’s 1984 have gone up anywhere between 3,000 and 6,000% (depending on whom you ask) on Amazon. So there’s that.
Sex & Drugs
The Story
An internal memo by an inspector general suggests higher-ups at the State Department may have interfered with or stopped investigations into some major, major misconduct by its staffers.
theSKIMM
Highlights of bad behavior include: Hillary Clinton’s security detail allegedly enjoying the company of prostitutes while abroad and an underground drug ring reportedly supplying security contractors with the goods in Iraq. The State Department said not to fret and that all allegations were very thoroughly investigated.
Repeat After Me
What to Say When Someone Brings up the NBA Finals
No more—let’s talk hockey. The Stanley Cup Finals start tonight with the Chicago Blackhawks battling the Boston Bruins in a classic matchup between two of the Original Six teams (read: first teams in the NHL). It will actually be the first time the two teams have faced off this season because of the NHL’s lockout, which caused a shortened schedule. The governors of Illinois and Massachusetts have decided to make a gentleman’s bet—loser will volunteer at a food bank of the winner’s choice. Yawn but still very nice.
What to Say When You See a Turtle
Slowly but surely, I’m sure you’ll do something. The Senate is now ready to start to debate immigration reform . This means onward with what could be the first major overhaul to immigration laws in a generation. The Senate bill would give the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. a pathway to citizenship, add funds for stricter border security, and require employers to check on the status of new hires to make sure they’re legit. Critics don’t think it takes into account that making 11 million people legal is expensive or does enough to secure borders. The bill has a long way to go, including through the Republican controlled House, so yes, this is just a little step forward. Hold the applause.
What to Say to Your Boyfriend
I just wish you got me as much as M. Night Shyamalan does. Turns out the man behind The Happening and our favorite, After Earth , has a softer side. He just admitted that he ghost-wrote She’s All That . That’s right, the man who made us watch Lady in the Water also gifted us Freddie Prinze Jr. and choreographed prom dances. Don’t ever doubt yourself, Mr. Shyamalan. You clearly have a sixth sense about these things.
Want more? Get the day’s breaking news headlines delivered to your inbox at theskimm.com .
Photo of man reading news courtesy of Shutterstock .
TopicsCurrent Events , Break Room , Syndication ,