BRIGHT SMILES
Teeth Whitening
Get the whiter, brighter smile you want and deserve.
Get the whiter, brighter smile you want and deserve.
How often do you smile?
Think about it. Are you hiding your smile because your pearly whites aren’t so white? If you’re avoiding smiling or getting your picture taken — even during the happiest occasions — because your teeth have become stained or discolored, you’re one of many individuals unsatisfied with the appearance of their smile.
Feelings of self-consciousness about the appearance of your smile can affect your life in many ways, making everything from relationships to job interviews to simply enjoying making memories with your family and friends more difficult.
There is a way to get the whiter, brighter smile you want and deserve. We can get you smiling once again with the powerful effects of professional tooth-whitening treatments.
There are several reasons that smiles can become discolored, stained or yellowed. These include:
Considering tooth whitening? Here are a few reasons you should:
It Improves the Appearance of Your Smile. Did you know that your smile is often one of the first things that people notice about you? It’s true. A study conducted by the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry found that 96 percent of adults think having a beautiful smile is more appealing to the opposite sex, and that more than 70 percent of adults feel as if their discolored teeth or tooth decay can have negative impacts on their career or future.
Having a dull or darkened smile may also communicate that you do not take care of your teeth and that you’re unhealthy. Having whitened teeth can communicate that you’re healthy and so is your smile.
It Boosts Your Confidence. Shying away from the camera or social situations because you’re not happy with the appearance of your smile? If so, whitening your teeth may give you the confidence boost you need and improve how you feel in social situations. You may even want to snap a selfie!
It Is Noninvasive. Whitening does not require any invasive treatment or recovery period. As an added benefit, you’ll see results quickly. It’s also affordable!
Breathe Modern Dentistry offers several high-quality options that use safe materials to combat tooth discoloration and brighten your smile.
While it can be difficult to predict how your smile will whiten because results vary from patient to patient, our tooth-whitening options have been proven to show significant benefits in comparison to other whitening treatments, including those you can purchase online or over-the-counter.
By choosing professional teeth whiteners from a dentist, you can reduce the potential for tooth sensitivity, gum irritation and other complications that over-the-counter teeth-whitening kits, whitening toothpaste or internet treatments can cause.
Yes! Many patients are concerned about their smile looking natural after whitening. We assure you that the effects of treatment will not only make your smile look whiter, but it will also look natural. Whitening your teeth does not add any unnatural color to your teeth. Instead, it bleaches surface stains, leaving you with a beautiful, natural result.
No, tooth whitening cannot improve the appearance of dental restorations. If you have a restoration you would like to update, talk to us. We can help.
Find out if you’re a good candidate for teeth whitening. Learn more about tooth-whitening treatment and our cosmetic dentistry services and how we can help by calling to schedule a consultation today.