Cambridge, MA, USA Machine : Tree Destruction Goals, the Building which has not been used for 80 years, and other word games.
1. Outrageous Misdirection on Massive Tree Destruction.1. Outrageous Misdirection on Massive Tree Destruction.
2. The Fake Neighborhood Association in Context.
1. Outrageous Misdirection on Massive Tree Destruction.
At the latest meeting of the fake neighborhood association, the head of the group was proud they were not destroying hundreds of trees around the building they tell people is the only thing they should be looking at.
He did not mention that the non stop propaganda of the organization is that it is anti Charles River to look at anything other than that building.
He and his buddies are fighting to destroy hundreds of trees along the Charles by telling folks not to look at anything other than that building which has not been used for 80 years. The destruction they are fighting for are hundreds of trees located between the BU and Longfellow Bridges. In addition, Governor Patrick’s House Bill H3332 with contains $24 million under the euphemism Historical Parkway is a spin off of lies of lovely underpasses under the next three bridges these folks have cooed about.
Part of their corrupt vote of April 23, 2013, supported part of the bike highway being funded by the $24 million which destroys those hundreds of trees.
They are also not walling off the Charles River, I hope, by yelling about that one building. They are, however, fighting to keep Magazine Beach walled off from the Charles by ordering people to look at nothing other than that one building.
The Machine’s explanation for the bizarre wall was incompetence of their friends. They insisted the Department of Conservation and Recreation was too incompetent to chop down their introduced bushes. The DCR is capable of chopping down bushes everywhere else, but not, according to that lie from the Machine, competent enough to chop down the bushes which created that wall.
The corrupt April 23 vote supported expansion of that “incompetence” and proved their “incompetence” lie just another lie. The corrupt vote of April 23 could double that bizarre wall.
The Machine is also not dumping poisons on the banks of the Charles River as part of that building. They are keeping those poisons in the playing fields by the nonstop pitch that it is anti Charles River to look at the problems of the Charles River. And they are calling their lies of anti-Charles River behavior just more lies by doubling the size of the area with poison usage by the corrupt vote of April 23.
They are also not heartlessly abusing the Charles River White Geese and other resident animals by that building. They are keeping the heartless abuse in play by telling people to look at nothing but that building.
Then there is the destruction of the parking lot for their beloved building, supported by the corrupt vote of April 23.
Word games, word games, word games. A lie is a lie is a lie. Word games are exactly that.
Very rotten people, but they, as is part of the game of the Cambridge Machine, yell about minutia and keep the massive destruction as secret as possible.
2. The Fake Neighborhood Association in Context.
Dealing with the Cambridge Machine is highly predictable if you know their behavior.
There are a whole bunch of bad faith maneuvers which are totally predictable, except it is not possible to tell which will be used next.
And they always are done indignantly, holier than thou.
And in exactly the same pattern of irresponsible behavior as the rest of their destructive friends.
The rotten behavior is because their goals are so rotten. They cannot achieve their goals through honorable behavior.
The near 50 year rent control activist who has been fooled into fighting for the other side by an outrageous con game is the norm. He got conned by an outrageous play on words.
Play on words is business as unusual. How dare anybody expect responsible behavior from the holier than thous!!
Decent people are regularly used to destroy their own causes by any number of dirty tricks, like the nearly 50 year rent control activist.