Sony Pictures unveiled at their CinemaCon presentation yesterday a logo for the sequel for the 2014 hard-boiled action/thriller, "The Equalizer," aptly titled "The Equalizer 2."
Screen Rant said that the second installment of the film was actually "put into development" even before the first movie came into the theaters on September. Sony's latest announcement further confirmed the news.
Led by prominent actor Denzel Washington, the story, which was loosely based on a 1980 TV series of the same name, reveals the life of agent Robert McCall. more >>
OUT OF 5 STARS: 3
"Little Boy" Rated PG-13 Running Time: 106 minutes Opens: Friday, April 24 Stars: Jakob Salvati, Michael Rapaport, Emily Watson Directed by Alejandro Monteverde
Alejandro Monteverde risks trivializing faith by likening it to magic in "Little Boy" but manages to appease believers with a powerful lesson about loving thy neighbor. more >>
Audiences got their first look at Johnny Depp in the upcoming Walt Disney film, "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales."
An image released by producer Jerry Bruckheimer shows the first official photo of Johnny Depp in the fifth installment of the swashbuckling film franchise, "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales."
Bruckheimer teased the photo on his Twitter account Tuesday, showing Depp's character, Jack Sparrow lashed tightly to a mast between two pirates. The director captioned image: "Captain Jack is back, and we're not letting him go." more >>
Ryan Gosling is reported to be in negotiations to join the upcoming sequel of the sci-fi cult classic "Blade Runner." If he signs on, he will be joining Harrison Ford, who is reprising his role as Rick Deckard. Gosling's role, however, is still unknown.
Gosling, who was last seen in "The Place Beyond the Pines," has been notably absent in box office hit movies this past few years. In 2013, he announced that he was taking a temporary break from acting, saying that he had "lost perspective" on what he was doing. During this time, he tried his hand at directing and producing. In 2014, he signed on for "Nice Guys" with Russell Crowe and is currently working on the "The Big Short" with Christian Bale, Steve Carrell and Brad Pitt.
Denis Villeneuve will helm the project for Alcon Entertainment, with the first movie's director, Ridley Scott as executive producer. The sequel's screenplay was written by Hampton Fancher and Michael Green. The story will still be set in a futuristic, dystopian Los Angeles, but several decades after. The 1982 original film was set in 2019 Los Angeles. Deckard, played by Harrison Ford, was a replicant hunter – a replicant was a bioengineered being. more >>
In the recent CinemaCon, Ben Stiller reprised his role as Derek Zoolander in the 2001 movie "Zoolander," in a video clip shown during one of the panels. The video clip confirmed another cast member, Billy Zane, returning for the movie's sequel "Zoolander 2." Stiller also said that the next movie will be a "giant bomb ... filled with money," hinting at the movie's possible success.
Stiller and his co-star, Owen Wilson, a month ago surprised the audience during the Valentino fashion show at Paris Fashion Week when both of them walked in the runway. They used the stunt to announce the sequel's release date, which is in February 2015. Both of them were wearing modeling garb and were flashing their signature modelling looks.
The sequel will bring back other cast members who were in the original movie, according to reports in Variety and Deadline. Apart from Billy Zane, Will Ferrell who played the sinister Jacobim Mugatu will also reprise his role and Christine Taylor as Matilda Jeffries. New cast members were also recently announced such as Penelope Cruz, whom Stiller announced himself, Kristen Wiig in a still unknown role, and Cyrus Arnold, as Zoolander's son. More recently, it was also announced that "Saturday Night Live" actor Fred Armisen has signed on to the comedy sequel as well, according to Time. more >>
While the recently-opened "Fast & Furious 7" has currently been enjoying a huge box office success, talks about a purported sequel are also trickling down in the rumor mill.
Actor Vin Diesel previously told Conan O'Brien in his TBS talk show that there is a "Furious 8" and that it will happen largely in New York.
Meanwhile, another talk show revelation made into the news and this time, it came from "Furious 7" collaborator Kurt Russell. more >>