Canadian mobile phone maker Research In Motion is hard at work with the development of a new BlackBerry device, the long rumored BlackBerry Bold 9800 Slider, and a few new photos with the device have just emerged into the wild. Running under the BlackBerry 6 OS, the new device is reportedly headed to the market with a sliding QWERTY keyboard, which is complemented by a virtual QWERTY keypad, as some of the images below show.
The yet unannounced handset marks a shift from the popular candybar QWERTY devices included in the company's Bold series, given the sliding design, while also bringing into the mix some features from the Storm smartphones, with that touchscreen display it should sport. The screen boasts a 360 x 480 pixel resolution, and it seems that the SurePress technology won't be present into the mix, yet specific details on what it should include are still missing.
Among the specifications that the BlackBerry Bold 9800 Slider might come to the market with, we can count 512 MB of RAM, coupled with 4 GB of on-board memory and a microSD memory card slot for additional storage space. Wi-Fi connectivity should be present on the device too, as well as a 5-megapixel photo snapper and a trackpad. Those willing to learn a few more details on the handset should take a look at the images attached to this article, or head over to theberryfix for the entire gallery.
In the last photo presented below (available via The Cellular Guru), users will be able to see the new webkit browser, which scored 100% in that Acid3 test, and which is said to feature support for Flash as well. As for the release date of this beauty, some of the latest rumors around suggested that it should land in June in the United States, featuring support for AT&T's network. Canadians should also be able to enjoy its features, though no specific info on the matter emerged as of yet. The release window for the device is the third quarter, and one can hope that it will make an appearance in June, just as rumored before.
BlackBerry Bold 9800 Slider in New Photos
Shows touchscreen display, the new webkit browser