Ravensburger Ltd
Stand Number: N13
Member
Ravensburger Ltd is a modern, international group with a long tradition and solid values. Its mission is “Playful Development”. Its main trademark, the blue triangle, is one of the most renowned trademarks across the world and stands for the values enjoyment, education, and togetherness. Ravensburger is one of the leading brands for puzzles, games, and activity products in Europe as well as for children’s and youth books in the German-speaking region. Games with the blue triangle are sold worldwide, with 90% of them produced in the company’s own production plants. With recent accruals, BRIO and ThinkFun are now key cornerstones of the Ravensburger UK range.
Ravensburger Cat and Mouse
Delicious. Who will not be deterred, be the first to collect 5 cheese corners and win this magical dice running game?
Ravensburger.
ThinkFun Gravity Maze!
GraviTrax Obstacle
Experience the power of gravity! Use your imagination to build superb tracks and set the gravity spheres rolling! This STEM system is an ideal one to teach kids about gravity, magnetism, kinetic energy and fun..
Ravensburger CreArt Delightful Deer
Admire the beauty of this stunning deer as she poses for a portrait painting. Be quick! She's not going to stay there forever! This colourful painting by numbers activity is sure to relax and satisfy you as each section is completed with a lick of paint. Coloured guide outlines distinguish between each colour, ensuring a picture-perfect result. Includes high quality thick painting canvas and 10 acrylic paints in numbered pots, easel to hold the pots, fine point durable paintbrush for detail painting, easy to follow guide sheet, presentation frame to display finished artwork and glittering gems to complete the masterpiece.. For ages 7+.
Ravensburger Blue's Clues and You 4 in a Box (12, 16, 20, 24 piece) Jigsaw Puzzle
See what Blue gets up to in her day in these bright and colourful jigsaw puzzles. She starts with breakfast with Mr Salt & Mrs Pepper. The she meets up with Magenta for a play outside. Tickety Tock then tells her it’s time for a story , so they all gather around the Thinking Chair. Then after all of that, it’s time for bed! Blue has had a busy day! Join in the fun with these four high quality cardboard jigsaw puzzles in 12, 16, 20 and 24 pieces.
Ravensburger Paw Patrol The Movie 35 piece Jigsaw Puzzle
Mayor Humdinger has started causing havoc in Adventure City, but Chase, Marshall, Rubble, Sky and Liberty are ready to restore order! Join in the fun with this action packed high quality35 piece jigsaw puzzle. Our 35 piece kids puzzle are crafted with FSC premium quality and measure 26 x 18cm when complete. Great puzzles for Children 3 years old and up.
Ravensburger Mix Tape 200 piece Jigsaw Puzzle
Groove to your favorite tunes as you puzzle your way to nostalgic bliss! Which songs did you include on your mix tapes? Remember how the tapes would get jammed in the player and you had to wind them back into the cassette by hand? You’ll enjoy more good times with our 200-piece puzzle; just enough pieces to calm your mind after a hectic day. Puzzles help you relax, focus and support logical thinking. Enjoy the fun and benefits of a “Puzzle Moment” with Ravensburger!
Ravensburger Lamborghini Huracan 108 piece 3D Jigsaw Puzzle
Anyone who has a soft spot for the sought-after Lamborghini Huracan will be unable to resist this élite model. On a scale of 1:18, the Lamborghini Huracan 3D Puzzle is the perfect miniature, with elegant lines and a classically orange design appealing to any car enthusiast. Our 108 piece Lamborghin Huracan 3D jigsaw are crafted with premium quality and when completed is 25.5 x 12.5 x 6.8cm. Great 3D puzzles for Children 8 years old and up.
BRIO Disney Princess Castle. This enchanting playset helps young children to practice their creativity and roleplay skills as they play out their stories. Whilst building and playing with the railway elements is great for practicing logical thinking and fine motor skills.
Ravensburger Labyrinth | The Moving Maze Game
Labyrinth is the race for treasures in a moving maze! Be the first to collect all your treasures by shifting the walls of the labyrinth to create a clear path. Players take turns to search the Labyrinth for their magical objects and characters by carefully moving through the constantly.
Ravensburger 3D Puzzle Lamborghini
Discover unique puzzle fun in the third dimension with 3D Puzzles from Ravensburger! Thanks to our Easy Click Technology, the plastic puzzle pieces fit together precisely. Create stunning 3D objects with individually shaped and bendable puzzle pieces – no glue required!
sales@ravensburger.com
01869 363800