ILO-TL Office
International Labour Organization – Timor-Leste
Roads for Development Program (R4D)
Re-Advertisement
Vacancy for 5 Positions of Assistant Regional Engineer (UN Salary Scale NOA)
As the received response to the original vacancy announcement of 25 March 2014 was only partially successful, the positions are herewith re-advertised. Interested candidates who already submitted their application are requested not to apply.
Duty Station: Dili (1), Baucau (1), Maliana (1), Same (1) and PanteMakasar (1)
Duration: Starting date 2nd June 2014, initially for a period of 12 months.
R4D is the Government of Timor Leste’s leading national Rural Roads Development and Capacity Building Program, implemented through the Ministry of Public Works, with financial assistance from the Australian Government and technical assistance from ILO.
To support its five international Regional Engineers, R4D intends to recruit five Timorese Assistant Regional Engineers to assist and support the international Regional Engineers in all the aspects of their work. This includes district-level coordination and planning, the implementation of surveys, the preparation of designs and costs estimates, tendering for works, the provision of training to local contractors and staff of the Ministry of Public Works, site supervision, quality control, monitoring and reporting.
Applicants should have a university degree in civil engineering and at least 5 years of relevant working experience, of which at least 3 years in the (rural) roads sector. Experience with the management of contractors is required. Experience as a trainer is an advantage. Candidates should have a good command of spoken and written English and should have good communication skills and knowledge of computer applications. Candidates should have a valid motorbike driving license and be able to drive a motorcycle in difficult terrain/road conditions. It is expected that the Assistant Roads Engineer will have to spend 60-80% in the field.
Interested candidates can contact Mrs. Irene Teresa Vicente da Cruz (irene@ilo.org) or Mrs. Elvia Mesquita (mesquita@ilo.org) to obtain the detailed Terms of Reference for the positions. Applications should be sent by email or in a sealed envelope to Mrs. Irene da Cruz or Mrs. Elvia Mesquita (ILO Office Caicoli, UN Obrigado Barracks, (irene@ilo.org or mesquita@ilo.org), mentioning “Application for R4D Assistant Regional Engineer – Re-advertisement”. Applications should include a motivation letter, a detailed and updated Curriculum Vitae and the names and positions of at least three references. The deadline for the submission of applications is 17 April 2014, 5:00 pm. Only short-listed candidates will be contacted for an interview and a test.
2 thoughts on “International Labour Organization – Timor-Leste – 5 Positions – CD 17 April 2014”
Se rekruta here kompetensi nebe iha kualidade hodi halao dezevolmentu iha timor leste. Hakuak boot .
…
Parabens ba alin sira. Nee nudar espiritu dejempenhu ida ba Timor Leste atu fo atensaun ba alin oan sira seluk nebee iha talentu ba football. Favor ida upload jogos sira nee ba youtube atu nunee Timor oan sira seluk bele asesu hodi hare fali jogos hirak nee.