Maximum Liven
Meatless Monday
Spaghetti with Vegetable
Ingredients
1 lb broccoli
2 garlic cloves chopped
½ pack wheat spaghetti
4 tablespoons olive oil
¼ cup onion
Option- Kale
Parmesan cheese
Boil broccoli in a medium pot and cook until tender.
Prepare spaghetti based on package directions. Set aside.
Sauté garlic in 2 tlbs. olive oil and add broccoli . Toss and set aside.
Add 2 tablespoons of olive oil to skillet , add onions, garlic sauté until toasted. Stir in spaghetti and broccoli turn off heat with a cover over top to set 10 minutes. Sprinkle with cheese and season to taste.
Veggie Lasagne
Ingredients
12 – 16 oz. Noodle
2 tablespoons low sodium margarine
1 cup milk lactose or soy
½ teaspoon pepper
½ teaspoon oregano
1 ½ cup ricotta cheese
¾ cup parmesan cheese
½ cup liquid egg
1 ½ cup pre made pasta sauce
2 ½ cups spinach
½ cup chopped red onion
1 ½ cup low fat mozzarella cheese
Direction
Heat oven to 350. Cook noodles according to
the package direction. Drain.
Melt margarine and add flour to make a
paste. Stir milk, salt, pepper, oregano. Stir
until thick. Stir in ricotta cheese and egg.
Add cooked noodles and remove from heat.
Add oil to an 8 by 8 pan. Spoon in noodles.
Bake for ten minutes.
Add spinach, mushroom, and onion.
Top with sauce. Sprinkle on the mozzarella
cheese and bake 20 minutes
Meatless Stroganoff
Ingredients
Serves about 6
2 tablespoons margarine and
2 tablespoons margarine
1 large shallot, minced
3 cups portabella mushrooms or
3 cups cremini mushrooms, cubed
1 3/4 cups vegetable broth
1/2 cup white wine
11/4 teaspoon fresh thyme, chopped
4 tablespoons flour
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/4 cup parmesan cheese, grated
1/4 cup fresh parsley, chopped
salt and pepper
Directions:
Melt the first amount of butter over medium heat
and add the shallot, cook until tender.
Add the mushrooms to the pot and cook until tender.
Add the broth, wine, and salt and pepper if desired.
Bring to a boil and then turn down heat and simmer
for about ten minutes.
While the sauce is simmering, in a separate pot
melt the second amount of butter over medium heat.
Stir the flour into the butter until absorbed to make a roux.
Pour the mushroom mixture into the roux and
bring to a boil, turn down the heat and stir until thickened.
Stir in the heavy cream and parmesan
cheese, and parsley.
This can be served over rice or pasta –
Serve with some crunchy garlic toast
Cheesy Potato Soup
Ingredients
1 cup chicken broth or mushroom soup
2 tablespoons butter
¾ cup chopped onion
3 tablespoons flour
4 cups chopped red potatoes
1 cup low fat soy milk
1 cup water
2 ounces of low fat cheese
½ teaspoon red pepper
2 ½ tablespoons of green onion (set aside)
Directions
1. Melt butter over medium heat with onions.
2. Cook until tender. Add flour cook and stir.
3. Add potato, soy, broth and ½ cup water.
4. Boil, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes.
5. Add ½ cup cheese and pepper cook until
cheese melts. About 2 minutes.
7. Top with green onions before serving
Garbanzo Bean Soup
Ingredients
2 tablespoons olive oil
½ cup pasta shells
½ cup chopped onions
5 chopped garlic cloves
1 bay leaf
½ cup dried tomatoes
½ teaspoons dried red peppers
Pinch of jalapenos
2- 16 oz. Drained cans of beans
1 chopped carrot
Directions
Cook 1 can of beans in pan and cook pasta
according to the package directions. Add
vegetables to pan and cook about 45 minutes.
Set aside one can of the beans. Take the pan
and pour into a blender and mix to puree.
Return the mixture to pan and add remaining
beans and pasta. Add a little seasoning and
water if needed.
Maximum Liven
Fad Diets
Fad diets are popular but short term because you are cutting calories from your diet temporary. The sure way to lose weight is to burn more calories than you eat according to the National Institute of Health. You may cut about 1000 calories from your diet and lose about 2 pounds per week.
Healthier Eating
Fad diets do not always encourage healthier eating, some do. This is why the diet is short term. The cabbage diet for example, encourages eating the cabbage in place of meals. This will add more vegetables to your diet however there is no protein or the healthy fats. Eating more vegetables does give appetite control.
Results
Fad diets may get quick weight loss however the Dr. Hensrud at Mayo clinic warns that the results will not last. Unbalanced diets can increase your risk of diseases. You may lose valuable nutrients. For more information go to Mayo Clinic.com Fad Diets.
Boost your metabolism with these foods:
Whole grains can help you burn twice more calories. Try oatmeal and brown rice.
Lean Meat
Protein has a high thermogenic effect: You burn about 30% of the
calories the food contains during digestion, 300-calorie chicken
breast requires about 90 calories to break it down.
Green Tea
Drink 4 to 6 cups a day. Keep a jug in your fridge.
Hot Peppers
Capsaicin, the compound that gives chili peppers their kick, heats up your body, which makes you melt additional calories. You can get it by eating raw, cooked, dried, or powdered peppers,
Add as much cayenne or hot sauce as possible to soups, eggs, and meats.
High fiber foods -corn, black beans, almonds
Meatless Monday
Metabolism booster from Grandma Georgia Goodies
Red Pepper Dip
1 jar of roasted piquillo or 2 red bell peppers rinsed and drained
2 ½ oz. Feta cheese crumbled
½ cup sliced almonds
½ cup parmesan
1 tablespoon sherry vinegar
1 large garlic ,minced
½ teaspoon red pepper flakes
Mix all ingredients in food processor and place in bowl . Season and chill.
Serve with flax seed crackers or pita chips.
1 can cream of celery soup
1 can cream of potato soup
¼ cup jalapeño slices
Combine soup by the label directions and mix them . Add peppers and serve with the chip and dip above recipe.