The a Troy today..
Mosley, whose DNA police said was recovered at the crime scene, was arrested for the murders a few months after his DNA had been entered in a state database and compared with DNA from unsolved crimes.
See the rest of today’s story
Shocking, really.
once again one side of the story
One side of the story? Seriously? He may be innocent until proven guilty regarding the current charges, but his record of convictions and dishonorable discharge are facts. There is no other side to that story.
I’m just waiting for Really to comment how nice of a guy this perp is.
What more do you need to know to stay a hundred miles away from him.
there is always 2 sides of a story and how far back in the past is this?
like u dont have skeletons.
Heck no I don’t have skeletons like that in my closet, why whose skull have you crashed in lately, burn any buildings lately.
No I don’t think the average person no let me correct that, not even the average person has been convicted of the crimes this guy has.
I certainly don’t have skeletons of a criminal nature, no.
I suspect with the kind of friends “just concerned” has they all have “skeletons” in their closets.
If he was someone that you have known for the last 20 yrs you wouldn’t belive any of this. He is a nice person
Sorry Alice, don’t agree. I went to school with Mike and and I wasn’t *too* suprised. Shocked, but not surprised.
Mike was/is a really nice person at heart. He has an infectious laugh and was usually smiling and laughing. If you were his friend, I am pretty sure that he would do near anything for you. He is extremely giving and I know that he was a great father and coach. BUT, if you were on his bad side, watch out.
Mike *ALWAYS* played hard. He was an incredible athlete and a champion wrestler. Obviously he had a lot of aggression and he was fearless. I wasn’t too surprised to hear how well he handled it when an M80 went off in his hand and he lost half his thumb. I also wasn’t at all surprised when I heard he enlisted in the Army. Likewise, I wasn’t too surprised when I heard that he was discharged after serving time in the brig for burning down his CO’s barracks after a disagreement. While that was heresay, I believed it; due to Mike’s aggressiveness, fearlessness, and take-no-sh!t attitude. I have no doubt that Mike would have been an incredible soldier in the field; always there for his brothers and sisters and committed to fight to the end.
Bottom line…. Great guy most of the time. But I wouldn’t want to be anywhere near him when he was mad. I know he loved his girlfriend with all of his heart, yet he was arrested for punching her in the face. I honestly wonder if he was bi-polar.
It’s a shame that he never received the help he needed. It’s very unfortunate that the Army wasn’t able to help him.
My sympathy goes out to his girlfriend, kids and family.
Yes Really will respond
you self rigthous LIERS… it must be so wonderful to be NOT PERFECT…
every one of you have and an inncident whether you want to admit it or not.. you are no different and have no right to Crusify this man just because of some accusations… Maybe he did Maybe he didn’t but either way he has touched many in his time with us for the good so shut your mouth and go find something to do w all your time.
Mike and his family will continue to be welcome. why because he has never done anyhting to disrepect me or my family and he has brought joy to those he has touched…. how bout that..
you are entitled to your opinion however don’t play like you are perfect cause we know your not..
I wish the family well and hold on it will be a long bumpy road just know you have support..
REALLY!!!
Really, no one is claiming to be perfect, which by the way is not the argument here. Your friend may be nice to you but he’s a thug to others. If you can’t understand that, well that make yous either a thug or a moron. Either character is rather unsavory.
Really………….you need to open your eyes
How awesome is that DNA database for catching criminals? A murder about 8 years ago is being solved now because of it. I’m sure he never, ever expected to be picked up on it. Prisons are built for people like this.
@Really
…Really?!?!?!?! So the dishonorable discharge, the time in Leavenworth for arson, the assault conviction and now suspect in a double murder, and you still think this guy is awesome? You’ve got to be a friend, relative or mental incompetent to not at least think that there may be some possibility that this guy may have some serious, serious issues.
I personally don’t associate with arsonists or suspected murderers, but that’s just me. I tend to worry you get on the wrong side of someone like that, they burn down yer house or want to bust your head. Once again, just my opinion.
wow it’s funny how the writers are willing to give this guy the benefit of the doubt but it was guilty off the back for Berry and Battiste and they had to prove themselves innocent even when there was no evidence that pointed towards them to support the charges against them. but yet this guy’s blood was found at the sceen mixed with the victims blood and he still is being considered innocent but dna does not lie they the informants and so called witnesses do.