Seven Days to Beautiful Living: Adjusting your Mindset
Welcome to day 3 of Beautiful Living.
When you decide to make beautiful living apart of your journey you will also have to adjust your mindset. There are so many people that are walking around with a negative mindset. All of their thoughts are negative and everything that comes out of their mouth is negative. This is because they have such a negative mindset.
One thing that I know for sure is that your thoughts becomes your reality. Your thoughts determines how you will live. I know you have heard the phrase change your thoughts, change your life but perhaps you haven't but this is true and you will need to change your thoughts in order to change your life.
Are you one of those people or know someone who I refer to as the whoa me? The whoa me people are always talking about the negative things in their life. They are the people when you asked them how their day is going it's always well my health is bad or I just been down on my luck or I don't know if I'm coming or going. Instead, what they should be saying is despite what the doctor report says, I am healthy, I am healed, I am blessed and I am not claiming what the doctor has said or my day is full of joy and peace.
In Romans 12:2, it says, "do not act like the sinful people of the world, let God change your life, first of all, let Him give you a new mind then you will know what God wants you to do and the things that you do will be good, pleasing and perfect".
You need a new thought process. You manifest the things that you think about the most. You have to continue to be mindful that your mindset set the stage for your life. I am a firm believer that whatever you anticipate in life you can put it in your mind and bring it to life. You have to continue to keep your mind in the right space and not allow your negative thoughts to take over.
Adjusting your mindset helps you to discover whatever it is that God wants you to do (your purpose). If you are trying to discover your purpose and you have a negative mindset then that's not going to work that well for you. You will not make it far at all with a negative mindset. Life is only as good as your mindset.
I encourage you to replace your negative thoughts with positive thoughts and affirmations.
A positive mind will not allow you to hold on to negative things. Every morning when you get out of the bed I want you to say these affirmations (feel free to add more :-)):
I can achieve greatness.
I am full of energy and full of joy.
I love and accept myself.
My body is healthy, my mind is brilliant and my soul is tranquil.
I believe that I can do everything.
Everything that is happening now is happening for your ultimate good.
I am the architect of my life, I build its foundation and choose its content.
I forgive.
My ability to conquer my challenges is limitless and my potential to succeed is infinite.
Today, on this day, I will abandon my old habits and take on more positive ones.
I am powerful.
I am peace.
I am amazing.
I am passionate about life.
I am unstoppable.
I am happiness.
I am blessed.
I am beautiful.
I am acceptance.
I am balance.
I am full of joy.
I am creative.
I am charming
I am capable.
I am clarity.
I am centered.
I am forgiving.
I am inspiration.
I am innovative.
I am confidence.
I am change.
I am courage.
I am knowledge.
I am originality.
I am whole
I am wealth.
I am worthy.
I am perfect. (You are perfect to do whatever God has called you to do.)
I am enough.
Remember a positive mindset allows you to overcome anything that you have going on in your life. Change your thoughts, change your life.
Click here for the full video that I did on Adjusting your Mindset. It is good and I believe that it will bless your life.
Until Next Time!
XO,
