Despite last season's heartache on The Hills, it looks as though Lauren's ready for a fresh start.
After being betrayed by her friends and losing Heidi to Spencer, things have finally started looking up for Lauren now that Audrina's stepped in as her new room mate...
The Hills Game
Create your own version of The Hills and then send it to your friends...
Heidi Montag: Higher
Watch Heidi frolic around on the beach in her music video directed by Spencer...
Lauren Goes To Paris
Get an EXCLUSIVE first look at this very special latest episode of The Hills...
Heidi Says No To The Hills Film
Heidi shuns the The Hills movie if her old friend Lauren, now arch enemy, is involved...
The Hills Movie Exclusive!
EXCLUSIVE: Lauren spills the beans on talks of a much anticipated Hills movie!
The Hills’ Heidi Gets Political
AND a presidential candidate admits he’s a fan of MTV's reality show…
The Hills Tops Rating Record
The Hills Season 3 Paris Special including EXCLUSIVE footage of the new episode!
SEASON FINALE: Episode 18
Whitney's called into Teen Vogue editor Lisa Love's office and receives some exciting news -- she's being sent to Paris on Teen Vogue's tab again!
Couples have been making up and breaking up in The Hills, but Lauren still finds herself in relationship limbo with Brody…
Lauren has had enough trouble avoiding confrontation with Heidi and Spencer, but now Spencer's sister is visiting The Hills…
Spencer isn't too enthused about planning so Heidi decides to take all wedding decisions into her own hands... Spencer will just show up in a suit!
Teen Vogue editor Lisa Love decides to send Lauren and Whitney to cover an event celebrating the power of voting…
It's Heidi's birthday, so Spencer sends a bunch of roses to her office with a card saying she is "the greatest thing that ever happened" to him.
After weeks of hard work, Whitney thinks she's finally found the perfect place for Teen Vogue to host the Young Hollywood party…
After kissing Brody in Las Vegas, Lauren is left wondering what their status is. Lauren tells Brody that she hasn't been on a date for weeks…
Jen Bunney texts Lauren, saying they need to talk. Lauren hasn't heard from Jen since she and Heidi conspired against her…
After all the drama at Jason's engagement party, Lauren's ready to head out of The Hills for a little while and decides on Vegas…
Lauren and Jason have been spending a lot of time together lately, leaving people wondering if they're becoming more than friends…
Audrina's back from a weekend away with Justin and she can't stop smiling. After all the drama, they've decided to officially become a couple.
He's baaack! Just when you thought Jason was out of Lauren's life forever, Lauren drops a bombshell on Whitney -- her ex-bf called!
After Justin's disappearing act at Brody's BBQ on the last episode, Lauren thought Audrina's days with the bad boy were over…
Heidi suggests that her husband-to-be come home with her to Colorado to meet her family. Time to meet the parents!
Now that she's decided to give Justin a second chance, Audrina wants Lauren to get to know her new boy better…
Just as things have finally started looking up for Lauren, it looks like Heidi and Lauren's friendship is officially dunzo…
Lauren Conrad
After leaving Laguna Beach Lauren lasted through an unsuccessful semester at The Academy of Art in San Francisco, before moving to LA to work at Teen Vogue – keep an eye out for her and her ex Jason Wahler.
Heidi Montage
Heidi appeared briefly in Laguna Beach before joining Lauren in SF, and then following her to LA.
Audrina Partridge
Audrina wants to be an actress, she's Heidi's new friend in LA – but is something going on with her and Heidi's fella?
Whitney Port
Works with Lauren at Teen Vogue – on the surface she's a trustworthy friend, but how will her being asked to take to the catwalk affect their friendship?
Heyy *below*
Your abit late reading that :D
They put that out in April..
It will be coming on May 25th :D
Okay so whats the deal with us not being able to watch the fourth series? , on this page it says "If you cant wait till May to watch then watch the exclusive clips that took the US by storm...". But y'know we're kinda in May?
hi just wondering is the hills reality or not cant reallt tell, either way i love it
25th of May MTV
be there, or miss out!
a couple of days later on the website
:) :)
can't wait guys :)
xxxxxxxx
just finished watching the extra episodes. absolutely loving it!!!!
i think some people need to calm down.
ino some people are saying its season four but theres no need to cry about it.
you can see why some people think its a new seasons because theres brand new episodes you just assume.
were all excited so chill the hell out.
xo
Btw, why is episode 1&2 one episode?
Can't waitt for the extra episodes in may and season 4!
I think Lauren Conrad is amazing, and I can't believe that someone would spread rumours like that!
I also loved that thing Lauren Looks Back, Lauren was always my fav from Laguna Beach too!^^
xxxx
To The Comment Below!
For the last time.. IT IS NOT CALLED SERIES 4.. IT IS AN EXTENSION FOR SEASON 3!!!
Season 4 is said to be coming in the late summer.. hopefully! (:
& They have said (in the advert) that it will be sometime in May.. but they haven't announced it. I think they might announce it in the next week or so because April's Almost over!
xx
right just saw i think a taster of paris stuff when is it airing on mtv deos anybody know?? also when is series 4 starting i saw a clip of on MTV r looked great audrina is mates with heidi again, please somebody let me know when it will be shown many thanks hills fans xxxxxx
We don't get to see the aftershows because there's different ones for every country.
Like there's one for America And there's another one for Canada and toher ones for other countries!
But guess what! There's going to be a UK one too and it will be really soon! Because there already put up casting calls!
(: