Orchard Cottage
Orchard Cottage is an idyllic and wonderfully situated little cottage, with its wisteria-clad stone gables at the front, thatched roof and pretty façade
SLEEPS: 6 Adults + 2 kids
BEDROOMS: 4
BATHROOMS: 3
OVERVIEW
Orchard Cottage is beautiful grade II listed house on the private drive to Dillington House.
Inside it has been recently renovated to a high standard. There are three main bedrooms, one loft bedroom, and three bathrooms. One of the bedrooms is on the ground floor, allowing easy access for those less able to cope with stairs (however there are one or two steps on the ground floor).
The cottage has an open plan kitchen / dining room that is well equipped for those who enjoy cooking, and the dining table seats 10. There is a separate utility with washing facilities next door to the kitchen and a separate library / study area off the dining area. Next door is a spacious living room with a wood-burning stove, large flatscreen TV and comfy sofas.
The house also has a garden, with a protected and well-lit outdoor dining area (right outside the kitchen), and a wood-fired hot-tub in the garden. There is private parking for three cars.
The house’s rural location makes it a great escape for those looking to spend some time in the countryside, with plenty of pubs to walk / cycle to and things to see and do nearby, and convenient shopping in Ilminster is not far away.
BEDROOMS
There are three main bedrooms and one loft room, all with deep mattresses, 400 thread count cotton bedding, indulgent mattress toppers and indulgent fluffy bathrobes.
The ground floor bedroom has a superking-sized bed that can be separated into two singles and its own wet-room shower room. This room is a lovely room for anyone, but is especially well suited to those less able to navigate stairs, although there are two internal stairs on the ground floor so access is not entirely step-free.
In the two main bedrooms upstairs, the first has a superking-sized double turned leg four-poster, and a bathroom with a beautiful freestanding nickel bath (as well as walk-in shower), the second can be arranged as superking-sized double or with twin singles and has a walk-in shower only.
The fourth bedroom is a twin and is accessed only through the four-poster bedroom mentioned above, with which it also shares a bathroom, and so together these two rooms are ideally suited to a family with children.
LIVING AREAS
The kitchen / dining room is well equipped with an induction hob, oven, and there is a large fridge freezer with ice-machine in the nearby utility / larder. The dining table can seat 10 comfortably. The house also has a washer-dry. There is also a little library / study area for reading – or anyone who really must work!
And there is a good-sized lawn with a wood-fired hot-tub, a charcoal bbq and a teak outdoor table with chairs in a sheltered sunken patio area directly outside the kitchen.
SETTING & LOCAL AREA
Orchard Cottage is situated on the private drive to Dillington House, which is 100 metres or so further along the drive.
As well as being a quiet road, the drive to Dillington House is a bridleway and footpath. It leads into Dillington Park, which is a large area of parkland ideal for walks and dogs, and onto a myriad of other walking and cycling routes.
Nearby there are several pubs, such as the Dinnington Docks, Lord Poulett Arms, or Five Dials. couldn’t imagine the cottage being as lovely as it was, it way exceeded our expectations!
The quality of fixtures and fittings, furniture etc were all excellent, and made cooking in the kitchen a pleasure!
The place was spotlessly clean and had absolutely everything we needed to enjoy a relaxing weekend away.
The bath also proved to be very popular – there was a queue to use it!!
The location is stunning and we genuinely couldn’t fault it in any way.
We had an amazing weekend, and would love to return in the very near future. Thank you for sharing your lovely property with us.” – Hannah
“I can honestly say that my whole family were absolutely delighted with the accommodation!
It met all our needs and beyond right down to the dry logs waiting to be used for the burners😀.
The attention to detail was outstanding along with the very high quality soft furnishings such as interlined curtains, excellent mattresses and pristine bedding, towels and robes in all rooms!” – Margaret
“We really enjoyed our stay on the Dillington Estate – really beautiful and loved our walks to and from Orchard Cottage.” – Nicky
“Just wanted to let you know that we have left the house and we put the key back in the key safe. It was an absolutely wonderful stay. The house was gorgeous, clean, comfortable and well equipped. We have never been to the English countryside before and it was the perfect place for our adventures. We would absolutely stay here again have only glowing reviews.” – Erin
“The cottage is beautiful and it was an absolute pleasure to have it as home for a few days. The thoughtful touches of fresh bread etc and providing an interesting history of the estate were appreciated. We would love to stay again sometime” – Amy
“Thank you so much for such a wonderful stay! Such a beautiful property and we had the best time!
Orchard Cottage is absolutely beautiful! Very well equipped for a large group. The host was brilliant and communicated very quickly. Would absolutely recommend” – Arabella
“We were a party of 7 ranging in age from 10 to 80 years old and stayed at Orchard Cottage for my mums 80th birthday celebration weekend. We had the most fabulous time. The house has been beautifully renovated. The fixtures and fittings are high quality and luxurious. Under floor heating, contemporary fabrics, Nespresso machine and ice machine and not forgetting the wood fired hot tub all add to the experience. The beds are very comfortable, the bed linen crisp Egyptian cotton and the towels fluffy and warm. Bath robes, toiletries and hair dryers in all rooms are some of the extra touches which make the experience special along with the gorgeous countryside location on the beautiful Dillington Estate. If you book this property I guarantee you will not be disappointed” – Julie