15 & 30 hours Government Funded Childcare
Childcare is a big expense for families. At Dizzy Ducks, we have worked very hard to find a way that we can make the new funded hours work. Find out more about the funding and how to apply below.
What is Government funded childcare?
All 3 & 4 year olds are eligible for 570 hours government-funded early education the term after they turn 3 years old. But from September 1140 hours government-funded early education is available to working parents of 3 & 4 yrs old. This equals to 30 hours of childcare over 38 weeks.
Am I eligible?
The Government has launched a new website called childcarechoices to help provide parents with information on all the current and upcoming changes to funding. You can check to see what help you can receive with your childcare costs and whether you are eligible by visiting:
Your child must be aged either 3 or 4 years old..
How do I apply?
For 15 hours you just need to complete the below Application form, but for 2 year old funding and 30 hours funding you need to apply for an eligibility code, please see details below.
Step 1: Check your eligibility at or the Childcare calculator at
Step 2: Apply for your eligibility code. Once approved you will receive an 11 digit code. This code, your National Insurance number and the child’s date of birth should then be given to us when you apply for a place.
Step 3: Apply for a 15 or 30 hours funded place at Dizzy Ducks. Parents must complete a Dizzy Ducks Enrolment form and provide the code, personal details and session preference.
- Billericay Application for Funded Sessions
- Hainault Application for Funded Sessions
- Harlow Application for Funded Sessions
- Haverhill Application for Funded Session
Step 4: Sign Terms and Conditions. If you have been successful in your application, your nursery manager will provide you with the appropriate Terms and Conditions to sign.
What sessions will be available?
Each nursery will provide a selection of full day and half day sessions for parents to choose from. Select your nursery below to find out the sessions we have available:
- Billericay Funded Sessions
- Hainault Funded Sessions
- Harlow Funded Sessions
- Haverhill Funded Sessions
Will you offer term time or stretched funding?
All nurseries will provide stretched funding over the full year, although a few nurseries will offer term time only. This is only available at a limited number of nurseries.
Will I lose my funding if I become ineligible?
If a parent becomes ineligible they will not lose their place immediately as there will be a national grace period enabling parents to retain the place.
Are the funded sessions completely free?
Government funding is to provide high-quality, flexible early education and childcare. The government guidelines state that funding should not be used for:
- Consumables – drinks, meals, nappies, gloves, arts and crafts materials, paint, glue, messy play resources, anti-bacterial gels…
- Additional services – EY log, cooking, music lessons, baby yoga, trips...the list goes on.
Therefore we will be introducing an “Additional Services & Consumables charge” for parents accessing the “free” hours. This is between 54p and £1 per hour, which we believe is exceptionally excellent value. This charge is optional but we will be offering a limited number of places whereby parents can access a funded place without the Additional Services and Consumables charge.
What is the Additionals and consumables charge? What will it cover?
Parents who choose to pay the Additional services and consumable charge will have access the full range of Dizzy Ducks services.
✔ All meals: two course home cooked meals including
a morning and afternoon snack
✔ Choose the days that you need
✔ Special events and classes including
Mini Moosic
✔ Trips offsite to the park
✔ Access EY Log
✔ Additional hours to stay 7am – 7pm
✔ Termly Parents Evenings
✔ Childcare Matters Magazine (termly)
✔ Weekly e-newsletter
✔ Guaranteed place until your child leaves school
✔ Free uniform
For further information contact our Accounts team on 01277 636408.
Request a Funding Application Form
If you would like to receive more information on the 15 or 30 hours funding please fill in your details below