If guests, these are games that you provide for entertainment during the day and typically consist of outdoor over size board games like Chess, Connect four and Jenga. They are equally for the entertainment of the children and the adults, but surprisingly mostly for the adults!
Then there are the games that you can play in the evening that can or not involve the bride and groom.
So firstly lets explore my top ten list of outdoor games for your guests.
If you are looking to hire a Magician or looking for something different, check out my wedding day entertainment ideas post.
Top 7 Wedding Reception Games for Guests
Most people do not tend to own an outdoor over sized connect four so you would be either looking to hire these in or if you are lucky enough your hotel or wedding venue will have some that they can bring out.
#1 Jenga
The number 1 and favourite by a by a long way is Jenga – I have seen this a lot at weddings and it is typically one of those games that hotels do tend you have.
You can purchase a 1.2 M Jenga tower from £24.99 and after the wedding it can provide endless entertainment for any garden parties you have at home.
#2 Connect Four
In at number 2 is the giant connect four, now this one is not as easy to purchase so you are probably going to want to hire this one in.
#3 Croquet
This is another game that a lot of hotels do tend you have available, so when booking your wedding reception, make sure to enquire as to what outdoor games they have available, and if you are able to use them during your reception.
#4 Chess
Finally the other game that you are likely to see available at your hotel is Chess.
The chess board pictured here was at a hotel in Mexico for Mariono and Kris’s Destination Wedding – you might be lucky enough that your hotel has such an amazing outdoor chess set! Or as with the Jenga you could purchase your own for use after the wedding
These giant chess pieces can be purchased from amazon.co.uk for only 329 pounds!
#5 Sack Race
All you need for this one is some hessian sacks and some willing participants. Great fun on the lawn and you could have men against the ladies or brides family against the grooms family.
For some more great ideas for wedding games you can visit:
#7 Wedding Reception Games for Bride and Groom – Shoelywed Game
All these games require good weather and a large space outside, but if your wedding does not have the space or is in the winter, your wedding receptions games will have to take place inside.
My final wedding reception game is one that involves the entire wedding party.
The main focus is the bride and groom
Setup is very simple. Have two chairs placed back to back in the middle of the dance floor. The bride and groom sit, remove their shoes, and trade one, so they are holding a shoe from the bride and the groom. The MC or DJ will ask a series of questions about the couple, who answer them by holding up the shoe of the person that they think best suites the answer.
Timing of the shoe game can be strategic. It can be a good ice-breaker or crowd-warmer after the toasts have been said and the cake cut. It can also be a great intermission later in the evening when people can take a break from the dance floor and refresh their drinks.
The questions below are a starter but you can make them as rique as you dare!
Questions
Who is up first in the morning?
Who takes longer to get ready?
Who apolog who the first kiss?
Who made the first move?
Who does the dishes?
Who does the laundry?
Who’s a bed hog?
Who is always running late?
Who takes a longer shower?
Who is the biggest baby when they get sick?
Who mows the lawn?
Who holds their liquor better?
Who has the best taste in decorating?
Who has the best taste in music?
Who is the first to say sorry?
Who said “I love you” first?
Who cooks more often?
Who wears the pants in the relationship?
Who is the first one to say they’re sorry after a disagreement?
Who walks the dog more often?
Who’s the better mountain-biker?
Who’s more likely to destroy clothing doing the laundry?
Who was the first person to “pass gas” out loud in front of the other?
Who’s more likely to leave the cap off the toothpaste?
Who spends more time in front of the mirror?
Who’s more likely to run a red light?
Who snores the loudest?
Who watches more TV?
Who is always right?
Who likes to show their affection the most?
Who is shyest?
Who steals the covers?
This wedding game was taken from weddingbee.com
Read more:
I hope these wedding reception ideas have given you something to think about to make your wedding day a bit different!