Welcome to the Hundred Palms Residences Website
Project Launch:
15 July 2017
Register below for an early access preview!
Hundred Palms Residences is one of the biggest and most advanced residency projects by Hoi Hup Realty Pte Ltd.
Property Introduction
Hoi Hup Realty is also famous for the development of many big malls and commercial spaces in Singapore. The property is situated next to the Regentville Condo in the Yio Chu Kang Road, District 19, Singapore. Hundred Palms Residences provide the best living space to its residents and is surrounded by some of the biggest malls and is a five-minute drive from the Serangoon Gardens Village.
The Hundred Palms Residences is located right in between the Yio Chu Kang and the Hougang. This means it is convenient and safe with all the luxuries available at and around your own house.
Location
The Hundred Palms Residences is situated in the district 19 of Singapore and is surrounded by some of the biggest malls namely Hougang Green Shopping Mall, Heartland Mall and the Nex Mall. The Greenwich Village is also located nearby and consists of many cafes and shops that can be visited. If you have a child then this is the best place for you to stay because of the huge number of schools present in this area namely Hougang Primary School, Xinmin Primary School, Yio Chu Kang Primary School, Holy Innocents’ Primary School. Palm View Primary School and the Zhonghua Primary School. There are two very famous sports stadiums near it namely the Hougang Stadium and the Serangoon Stadium.
For the travelling purposes, you have the MRT and Bus interchange at places like Kovan, Buangkok, Serangoon and Hougang. The world famous Marina Bay Sands Resorts is also at a 15 minutes drive from the property. Also, the Central Business District is really close by. You Since it has been developed by one of the most renowned property developers, all you can expect is pure class and luxury from the condos.
Learn more about the Location here
Project Highlights
- Created by the renowned Hop Hup Realty.
-.
- Nearby parks for the kids to play at.
- Located at the heart of Yio Chu Kang and the Hougang.
Facilities that are built for comfort
The Hundred Palms Residences consists of a total 9 blocks with the 15 stories of the residential building in each block. The total number of residential units available will be 531. The total area of the site is about 198,302 square feet and the estimated ratio of one plot will be around 2.8. The executive rooms are available with 3,4 or 5 bedrooms and include all the modern amenities. All the units are fully furnished with the latest technology appliances.
There are facilities like swimming pools, Reading rooms and libraries, Fitness centres, Function room, BBQ Pavilion and the underground car parking that can hold up to 531 cars at a time. If you do not want to go outside to relax or want to have fun in the comforts of your own houses then they have indoor pools and gyms available at the executive condos. There are big parks also available for the children to play and for the parents and the adults to go and hang out.
Learn more about the facilities here
Estimated sqft price:
$750-$800 psf.
Project Highlights
–.
– Parks for the kids to play at.
– Located at the heart of Yio Chu Kang and the Hougang.
- 1
Q3 2017
Estimated Project Launch Period
- 2
28 June 2017
Estimated Preview Start Date
- 3
15 July 2017
Confirmed Project Launch Date
Get ready for the release of the Hundred Palms Residences Floor Plans and complete unit pricing!
Register for an exclusive preview today
The Early-Access Experience
By registering early, you can have a head-start on showroom viewing together with earlier access to pricing and floor plans.
Our team is super experienced in helping people to get their dream home at hyper-competitive prices!
Register today and get preferred pricing and early access!
We are ready to guide you through this big step up in your life.REGISTER TODAY
VVIP