FIRE
FIRE (First Introductions to Recording and Engineering) is an electronic music program where students learn the basics of MIDI and software such as Garageband, Logic and Reason while also applying fundamentals of music theory to create their own music. We live in an age where electronica has not only taken over music, but plays a part in tweaking some of the best rock, pop and classical musicians out there. The skill of engineering electronic music is an invaluable for any serious musician or music hobbyist. It is also a fantastic way to explore and create music for those who may feel more productive working independently.
Other classes offered within FIRE are Sibelius 101 (learning to typeset sheet music), Music Theory 101, Piano for Composition 101, Drums for Composition 101, and Singing and Songwriting 101. We also offer a course further into the curriculum where students can learn about scoring and editing movies and music videos.
PRESCHOOL MUSIC
Preschoolers (4's and late 3's) learn very differently from their kindergarten-aged peers. Hubbels was one of the very first in the area to have a piano lesson program specifically for preschoolers, and Music For Little Mozarts is an incredible method that has proven time and time again to be extremely effective with wee ones. Children will enjoy following the musical adventures of Beethoven Bear and Mozart Mouse while learning important fundamental concepts along the way. Combined with cerebral games and activities, this method offers a thorough (and fun!) learning experience and successfully transfers directly to the elementary-aged Alfred methods. Click to see the results!
For strings, we offer preschool aged Suzuki classes or private lessons with our Suzuki-certified, highly experienced instructor. Following a carefully curated program that has been around for over 50 years, this is a fantastic way for kids this age to begin the violin or viola in a gentle and comfortable fashion. In kindergarten, kids can begin private lessons using other materials or continuing with the Suzuki method. You can read more about the principles of Suzuki on their website.
ROCK CONSERVATORY
Over the years, rock workshops for children have become increasingly popular due to a need for kids to socialize and collaborate through the arts. However, our 6-week Rock Conservatory program stays true to our studio's roots by keeping our groups small, intimate and hand-matched for the best experience and results. Held periodically throughout the year, 100% attendance to all shows and rehearsals are mandatory, and parts must be practiced (and preferably memorized) outside of the studio. All band members must work together as a team to ensure that the outcome is the highest they can achieve.
We also strongly stand by the students being as self-sufficient as possible, and adults do NOT play in the bands unless a part cannot be covered by a student.
While not necessary, a background in music theory is very helpful in order to execute correct chord, key and tempo changes, and while everyone is welcome, we expect the same growth that we see in our private lessons. An audition is required for outside students; please call to arrange one. We have many different student groups, organized by skill level.
Rock Conservatory coaches are seasoned rock veterans who make their living playing professionally. They have opened for many top 40 bands (including Puddle of Mudd and Dream Theater), taught for premiere rock schools in Westchester, and continue to take part in many exclusive cover bands and original projects. Check out many photos from student shows over the years.
New students, whether beginners or experienced, are always given a free trial lesson with our staff to determine if our studio is the right environment for them. Absolutely everyone is welcome, but we expect students to treat our instructors and their time in our studio seriously. Teacher availability changes depending on where in the teaching semester we are or how many students we have. If you would like one of our highly recommended teachers for a day or time that is not available, you can join a wait list for desired availability. Please call for rates/availability and check where we are in our semester calendar. We can also point you in the direction of what age is best for what instrument.
PRIVATE INSTRUCTION
Private lessons are offered on site in 30, 45 and 60 minute durations. We currently offer:
30 minutes is best for beginners, and as students advance (or if they've had prior training), they can increase their lesson time with teacher approval. Lessons are held each week on the same day/time. Students are absolutely required to study written music theory, physical technique, history and practice/performance strategies. We expect students and parents to commit to a healthy attendance schedule, especially if you want to see results.
Hubbels Music © 2019