BILL NEAL
:10 I wanted to let some time go by so ya wouldn’t think I was trying to be self serving. As you all know, I am very humble, quiet, shy and not one to speak about myself. Myself …Neal…Neal…Neal! What? Stop lying to the people man. They know you better than that. Now just get on with it will you! OK, OK. Anyway, what I wanted to tell you was that a few weeks ago I was privileged to be honored by emcee Larry Richert and KDKA-TV at the first Home Town Heroes Awards. After several hundred local outstanding public servants were nominated, I was fortunate enough to be one of the five honorees recognized for outstanding public service. That said, I want to take this opportunity to thank Larry and KDKA for the tremendous banquet and event they hosted that, by the way, featured the living legend Bruno Sammartino as the guest speaker. But more importantly, I want to encourage all our readers to recognize and nominate someone you think deserves to be honored for what they do to help make Pittsburgh some place special. KDKA is now accepting nominations for Home Town Heroes II. Just call KDKA radio or go on-line for more information. Do it…do it now…or Bruno will body slam ya!!!
:09 Hey Rutgers University, maybe next you want to hire a former KKK member to oversee your minority affairs programs or you could get that nut from Cleveland to run your women’s sports program…or…hold up…wait a minute…you could bring Coach Mike Rice back and let him run sensitivity sessions for ya on campus after church. Look, you mean to tell me you hired Julie Herman to be your new athletic director…a woman that told her volleyball team 16 years ago they were a bunch of worthless talentless whores who better not get pregnant on her watch or burn in hell. C’mon man!! (Where do I get this stuff?)
:08 Reggie Bush playing for the Detroit Lions. Why?
:07 This is a test to see if Rita really does read my column every week like she says. If so…Rita call me and tell me you saw this.
:06 Is it me or do “Spock” from Star Trek and “Moe” from the Three Stooges look just alike? And have you seen them both in the same place at the same time? I’m just saying!
:05 Everett Golson, the freshman sensation quarterback at Notre Dame who was in line for Heisman nomination just got kicked off the team for academic cheating. Well then, how did he get in Notre Dame to begin with? That’s two “I am just sayings” for ya.
:04 Just look it up. Don’t take my word for it. I said the Spurs would win the West and would upset the Heat, and that you water head boys you can take it to the bank!
:03 Tim Duncan…probably the greatest power forward in NBA history and clearly the most underrated.
:02 I know I owe you that top ten list from dude “on vacation,” but I can’t find the damn thing, but I will I promise. I don’t want dude not on vacation anymore to come looking for me…you know what I’m sayin!?!?
:01 Movie Review Time. This is easy. Fast and Furious is…well, fast and furious. See it now. I give it 4
:00 DOUBLE OVERTIME
•The next and best Harlem Nights Old School Par-tay is coming Friday, May 31—3 Lakes Golf Course—8-1 p.m.—the line dance master Roland Ford will be there—music by the legend Sly Jock—free parking—cash bar—cash kitchen till 11 p.m.—50/50—best dressed man and woman—cash prize—the Corvette Club and their cars will be out on display and yes, it’s dress to impress.
This is the big one to kick off the unofficial start WISH light heavyweight champion Rayco “War” Saunders Weil as he gets ready for his title fight.
~ GAME OVER ~
Follow @NewPghCourier on Twitter
Like us at
Download our mobile app at