blog
blog • Children, Families and Nation • Circles • featured • Health and Wellbeing • Life Long Learning • Local Nation • Local Nations • MTN News • news • Pinaymootang
Treaty 2 Territory – Pinaymootang First Nation Chief Garnet Woodhouse & Council took time this week to honour and congratulate their very own Dr. Kyle Zachary Hall. After 7 years of determination and hard work, Kyle graduated from Max Rady College of Medicine at the University of Manitoba and is destined to begin his work …
June 11, 2021
featured • Internal and External Relations • news • Regional Offices
Treaty …
October 29, 2020
featured • Local Nations • news
O-Chi-Chak-Ko- Sipi – With a check stop and controlled entrance into their Nation, O-Chi-Chak-Ko-Sipi First Nation is postponing the election of Chief and Council until November 28, 2020 due to the seriousness of Covid-19 virus. O-Chi-Chak-Ko- Sipi First Nation acknowledges that the current mandate of elected officials expires at the end of May 2020 and
April 18, 2020
featured • Natural World • news
Treaty 2 Territory – Shawn Gurke is the GIS/Tech Helper (Specialist) for the First Nations in Treaty 2 Territory. Immediately after completing a Business Administration Diploma at Red River College Shawn founded his own company at the age of 20 – Kasmere Lake Outdoor Adventures, Ltd. in Northern Manitoba where he had spent his summers working
April 15, 2020
blog • featured • Local Nations • MTN News • news
Treaty 2 Territory – The First Nations in Treaty 2 Territory would like to wish Marlen Edwards of Lake Manitoba First Nation and Mya Kubrakovich of Pine Creek First Nation all the best in the 2019/2020 Manitoba AAA hockey playoffs. Marlen Edwards, of Lake Manitoba, currently leads in playoff goals with the Winnipeg AAA Bantam …
March 6, 2020
featured • Internal and External Relations • MTN News • news
Treaty 2 Territory – The Anishinaabe peoples have occupied these territories since time immemorial. They had their own justice system prior to colonial systems being imposed. The Government of First Nations of Treaty 2 Territory (FNT2T) are taken aback that the Government of Manitoba made a decision regarding the closure of the Dauphin Correctional
February 4, 2020
blog • featured • MTN News • news
Treaty 2 Territory – Grand Chief Eugene Eastman joined the First Nations in Treaty 2 Territory staff at the Government Building in Dauphin on Wednesday, January 29, 2020 during the Rebuilding Our Nation session. Grand Chief Eastman shared some of his experiences as Ogimaa (leader). One of things Grand Chief shared was his teachings by …
January 30, 2020
blog • Events • featured • news
Treaty …
December 2, 2019