, Cointreau crème brûlée (Micha gets extra points for all the diacritical marks), hard apple cider fritter, and real maple glazed & bacon”. Zounds! Anyone tried them? My doctor has added a switch that prevents me from turning the ignition off if I’m less than one block from a donut shop.
Next, the SW edition of Lardo, the sandwich shop and beer garden, which opened its original brick and mortar spot in SE Portland last July. They have a loyal following, not only for interesting selections such as a pig ear salad, and sandwiches like smoked coppa Cubano and pork belly, egg and cheese, but also for their large $5 beer selection. The new store is at SW 12th and Washington St., and is open daily from 11am to 10pm.
No word on when Ración the “modern tapas” restaurant from ChefStable and Anthony Cafiero will be opening.
Jill-O says
Ración is shooting for a January opening, but nothing is firm.
They are gonna do a few pop-ups until then. The first is at Boke Bowl. From an e-mail:
Our first pop up is scheduled for this Monday, the 10th at Boke Bowl. Tickets are $75 and include a six course dinner with beverage (alcohol) pairings, and a reception with a featured cocktail and snacks much like our on site pop up dinners. Tickets can be purchased at.
Food Dude says
Thanks Jill
ChefCafiero says
Thanks Jill-O and FoodDude. These pop up are going to be a lot of fun. We can wait to set up over at Boke Bowl! And note that these dinners wi be on Sundays and Monday throughout December, for all our industry friends!
ChefCafiero says
Oops! Sorry about the typo’s! This is what I meant to say: Thanks Jill-O and FoodDude! These pop ups are going to be a lot of fun. We can’t wait to set up shop over at Boke Bowl! Also please note that these dinners will be on Sundays and Mondays throughout December so that all our industry friends can join us.
Food Dude says
Like I’m gonna complain about someone else making typo’s
Team 309 says
Tried two of the donuts at Blue Star: the orange glaze with pistachio & cocoa nibs and the hard apple cider fritter. They were surprisingly HUGE! Very sweet (of course, they are donuts), very big, fresh and overall pretty good. Much better than Voodoo, but I’m not sure if I like the Krispy Kreme more. It’s close, but I liked the fresh and made to order. I could probably eat about 1/2 of the donut though since they are so big. I would prefer a smaller donut (and slightly lower price) so I could have two different at a time. I’ll go back when I’m in the mood for a donut, which is about twice a year.
Food Dude says
Thanks Team 309!
sabes says
Hold on, are you comparing a doughnut to Krispy Kreme??? I lived in Atlanta for a looong time and had a lot of KK doughnuts. Never have I heard them described as ‘good doughnuts.’ Sure, they’re fun to eat on occasion, but, as far as doughnuts go, they are a far cry from a good doughnut.