There are several reasons why user want to transfer music from iPod touch to iTunes. One is that they want to keep the music safe and secure with iTunes as the computer is always much safer than iPod. To avoid this problem the user prefers to sync iPod with the iTunes without any delay. However users find it hard to transfer iPod music to iTUnes. In this tutorial not only all such inconveniences will be discussed but the user will also be enlightened how one can overcome these issues.
This article would guide you how to transfer music from iPod Shuffle, iPod Nano, iPod Classic and iPod Touch to iTunes with ease.
There are different issues and reasons users want to transfer music from iPod to the iTunes. The three top are listed as follows below:
When multiple iDevices are connected to the same iTunes or synced with it, then some music will be lost. It is advised to make sure that a separate folder is created in the iTunes and the iPod synced songs are then transferred to that folder, so that the collection remains in another location separately. So such problem is never faced and user continues to enjoy the songs from the iPod without any mixture of music with that of other iDevices.
At times the user gets the best songs from any friend or relative and now wants to transfer it to the iTunes to backup. The iPod is definitely a smaller device as compared to any PC or laptop so making a backup with iTunes reduces the risk of device vulnerability, and if for any unforeseen circumstances the device is lost or stolen then the backup is there for the users as data is always considered more important than device.
If a person has changed the device from old to new one, then it is very important to sync with the iTunes to make sure that the data of the new device remains safe and secure.
The easiest and the safest way to transfer music from iPod touch to iTunes is advised to download TunesGo iPod Transfer onto the computer. And then sync the device as it will allow the users to get the best results without any issue and problem. The TunesGo has no restrictions and hence it works in a manner that is far much better than iTunes when it comes to transferring music to the system to create backup.
Step 1 Download the trail version of the product and install on the computer. Once done, launch it and the iPod will be detected. Simply click "Rebuild iTunes Library".
Step 2 Click "Start" to copy iPod Touch to iTunes.
Step 3Select to check the "Music" option and click "Copy to iTunes". And if you want to copy other files to iTunes too, such as playlists, movies, etc.