DevelopmentMr. Waddle was designed by My Little Pony Friendship is Magic character designer Rebecca Dart, who stated in an interview[1] that she designed a bespectacled old male pony, and mentioned on Twitter[2] that the pony in question was designed as "Incidental Senior Pony #3". According to Tabitha St. Germain on Twitter, Mr. Waddle may have been voiced by an animator.
Depiction in the series
Mr. Waddle in A Friend in Deed.
In Hearts and Hooves Day, Mr. Waddle is seen at a funeral service during The Perfect Stallion, wearing a clerical collar. As Sweetie Belle sings about finding a very special somepony for Cheerilee, she remarks about Mr. Waddle "this one's too old". He later appears in a wide shot of Ponyville wearing his original bow tie while standing with "Chelsea Porcelain".
Waddle appears again at the beginning of A Friend in Deed, wearing a large, polka dotted bow tie. When Pinkie Pie passes him by, she compliments his bow tie and he blushes. He appears in A Canterlot Wedding - Part 2 during This Day Aria, Part 1, again wearing his original bow tie while standing next to "Chelsea Porcelain" in the wedding audience.
Mr. Waddle appears as part of the crowd outside the Golden Oak Library in Too Many Pinkie Pies, and he also appears in Sleepless in Ponyville.
Mr. Waddle also appears in Pinkie Pride during The Super Duper Party Pony, in Leap of Faith, in Trade Ya!, and in Equestria Games. In Make New Friends but Keep Discord, Mr. Waddle appears (with a different cutie mark) as a guest of the Grand Galloping Gala. In Slice of Life, he appears (with yet another different cutie mark) at Cranky Doodle Donkey and Matilda's wedding. In Do Princesses Dream of Magic Sheep?, he appears in Ponyville's shared dream.
In The Saddle Row Review, Mr. Waddle appears as a diner patron during Fluttershy's interview segments.
In The Perfect Pear, Mr. Waddle appears as a young stallion in multiple flashbacks. In It Isn't the Mane Thing About You, he appears in Mr. Breezy's store admiring the fans. In Once Upon a Zeppelin, he appears as one of the cruise attendees.
In School Daze - Part 1, he appears as a member of the Equestria Educational Association. In Grannies Gone Wild, he is among the elderly ponies seen visiting Flim and Flam's resort.
Appearances
- See also: Character appearances
Depiction in Equestria Girls
Mr. Waddle's human counterpart briefly appears in the My Little Pony Equestria Girls: Summertime Shorts Shake Things Up!, as a customer at an orange juice bar at the Canterlot Mall, and Coinky-Dink World, in which he dances with Pearly Stitch at the Sweet Snacks Café.
Other depictions
IDW comics
Mr. Waddle makes a speaking appearance on My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic Issue #9 page 16, wearing his clerical collar, a non-speaking appearance on Issue #27 page 6, wearing a differently-colored collar, and a speaking appearance in My Little Pony: Ponyville Mysteries Issue #3.
My Little Pony (mobile game)
Mr. Waddle is a character in Gameloft's mobile game. The game's description of him states, "This sweet old stallion wears a polka-dot tie. You can make him blush with the bat of an eye."
Merchandise
In the Enterplay collectible card game's expansion set Absolute Discord, card #46 R of Mr. Waddle lists his name with a trademark symbol and gives him the description "At least he doesn't snore." For the same set, a digital card of The Smooze shows Mr. Waddle as in Make New Friends but Keep Discord.[3]
Quotes
- Pinkie Pie: Looking fit as a fiddle, Mr. Waddle, and you're wearing my favorite tie!
- Mr. Waddle: Aw, shucks, Miss Pinkie, you flatterer you.
My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic Issue #9
- Mr. Waddle: Everypony partner up! It's time for the Summer Wrap-Up Festival Games!
Gallery
See also
- Mr. Waddle, Frequent Napper on the Collectible Card Game Wiki
- Mr. Waddle on the My Little Pony Gameloft Wiki
References
- ↑ Interview with Rebecca Dart - Queen Chrysalis Designer. Equestria Daily (2012-08-20). Retrieved on 2013 December 22.
- ↑ Twitter / R_Dart: @GuyOthersome @EquestriaDaily .... Twitter (2012-08-20). Retrieved on 2013 December 22.
- ↑ MLP: CCG on Twitter: "What's this?! A brand new digital Mane Character card for #mlpccg Discord Day!". Twitter (2015-05-23). Retrieved on 2015 May 24.