Your browser does not support iframes.
By JEFF D’ALESSIO
jdalessio@thenewsenterprise.com
ELIZABETHTOWN — Lines were shorter Thursday at the second H1N1 flu clinic conducted by the Lincoln Trail District Health Department than they were the first time.
Director of outreach for the department, Wendy Keown, said 195 patients attended the clinic during a three-hour event at Pritchard Community Center to receive the H1N1 flu vaccine. Another 10 people received the seasonal flu vaccine.
CECILIA — The 5th Region Kentucky Association of Pep Organization Sponsors — KAPOS — competition took place last Sunday at Central Hardin High School. Squads from 11 high schools competed in several different divisions for a chance to qualify for the state competition to be held Feb. 20 at Western Kentucky University. A middle school competition was also held with squads from six school participating.
By MARY FINLEY
mfinley@thenewsenterprise.com
FRANKFORT — A bill introduced last week by State Sen. Elizabeth Tori, R-Radcliff, has raised the ire of some within the state for potentially placing additional restrictions on abortion procedures.
Marshall W. Baber, 65, of Elizabethtown, died Tuesday, Jan. 26, 2010. The funeral is at 11:30 a.m. today at Brown Funeral Home in Elizabethtown with burial in Kentucky Veterans Cemetery-Central. Visitation continues at 9 a.m. today at the funeral home.
The News-Enterprise
Easy access to valuables resulted in several thefts from cars Thursday night in the College Street area.
“There were no break-ins,” EPD spokesman Officer Virgil Willoughby said. “People just left their cars unlocked.”
Among the items stolen from unlocked autos was a laptop computer and a cell phone.
Willoughby said the incident is a good reminder to lock up valuables. He said as of Friday afternoon there were six reports of theft turned in to EPD from Thursday.
Enrollment for Elizabethtown Police Department’s spring Citizens Police Academy has started. The program is designed to educate residents on how their police department functions.
Two-hour classes are conducted 6:30 – 8:30 p.m. Mondays from Feb. 22 to March 29.
The program is free and open to the public.
Anyone wishing to participate can contact Officer Virgil Willoughby at (270) 765-4125 or pick up an application at EPD headquarters, 300 S. Mulberry St. Applications must be submitted by Feb. 18.
Marshall W. Baber Marshall W. Baber, 65, of Elizabethtown, died Tuesday, Jan. 26, 2010, at Veterans Hospital in Louisville. He was a native of Culpeper, Va., and attended Trinity Independent Baptist Church. He served in the U.S. Army during Vietnam and retired from A&P. He was a life member of VFW, American Legion in Culpeper, the Culpeper Moose Lodge and the Vietnam Ve
HARDIN COUNTY — Weather-related postponements and cancellations:
By MARTY FINLEY
HARDIN COUNTY — Kenneth Browning spent part of his Saturday morning racing up and down a small embankment in an Elizabethtown neighborhood.
The 14-year-old had a sled in tow, and was joined by a cast of friends — most of whom were younger than him — who relished the snow storm that blanketed Elizabethtown and Hardin County this weekend.
The News-Enterprise is your source for local news, sports, events and information in Elizabethtown, KY, Hardin County and the surrounding area.