520 Class 1
ENGLISH 520 (SUMMER 2011)
REPRESENTATIONS OF LONDON IN EARLY MODERN ENGLISH
LITERATURE
For Class 1, please read Kagan, de Certeau, and the introduction to John Taylor’s The carriers cosmographie (STC 23740). I have partially edited Taylor’s text and posted it to the Library on MoEML You may also read it via Early English Books Online. If you are on campus or logged into the U.Vic. library system, click on the title to go directly to the bibliographic record for The carriers cosmographie; you may read either the page images or the diplomatic transcription.
MoEML will be an important part of our course. Browse the website, especially the Agas map, before our first class. The experimental map has much higher resolution and is easier to pan across. Note that the Ward boundaries (the purple lines) are not correct on the experimental map.
Questions on Critical Readings:
- de Certeau: Why is it pleasurable to look down upon a city? How is looking at a map like the experience of viewing a city from above? Any thoughts on how an early modern Londoner might experience a map given that they could not see the from a plane, skyscraper, or aerial photograph? What sorts of understandings are forged by viewing from above? from walking? Any thoughts (from your own experience) of how being a pedestrian tourist in a city and being a foot commuter in the same city are different/similar experiences? What’s it like to navigate on foot using a modern map? We will want to return to this chapter throughout Part I of the course, which is mainly about ways of imagining the city by walking its streets or routes. (JJ)
- Kagan: Make sure you understand Kagan’s three ways of conceptualizing a city (civitas, urbs, res publica). We will try to apply these terms to depictions of various early modern cities. Also note the difference between chorographic and communocentric views. We will want to deploy Kagan’s terms throughout the course. (JJ)
Other Resources:
- A Table of the cheiffest citties, and townes in England, as they ly from London and the distance of miles, howe a man may travill from London to any of them or from any of them to London. I will bring a copy of this document to class.
Other References: Beier and Finlay, Harkness and Howard. I may draw upon these sources in my prolegomena and commentary. I list them here so that you have full bibliographic information. You do not need to read them for class.
Looking Ahead:
Summer courses move very rapidly. If you wish to begin your readings for the course, I suggest you begin with the five plays that will occupy our five last class meetings. Some copies of each play are available at the Campus Bookstore, although the complete order had not yet arrived on 28 April:
- Heywood, Thomas. The first and second parts of King Edward the fourth. Ed. Richard Rowland. Manchester: Manchester UP, 2009. Print. Revels Plays.
- Shakespeare, William. King Richard III. Ed. James Siemon. London: A&C Black, 2009. Print. Arden Shakespeare, 3rd series.
- Dekker, Thomas. The Shoemaker’s Holiday. Ed. Robert Smallwood and Stanley Wells. Manchester: Manchester UP, 1999. Print. Revels Plays.
- Beaumont, Francis. The Knight of the Burning Pestle. Ed. Sheldon Zitner. Manchester: Manchester UP, 2004. Print. Revels Plays.
- Jonson, Ben. Bartholomew Fair. Ed. Suzanne Gossett. Manchester: Manchester UP, 2000. Print. Revels Student Plays.
References
CitationA.
CitationBeier, A.L., and Roger Finlay.
The Significance of the Metropolis.London 1500–1700: The Making of the Metropolis. Ed. A.L. Beier and Roger Finlay. London: Longman, 1986. 1–33. Print.
CitationDe Certeau, Michel. The Practice of Everyday Life. Trans. Steven Rendall. Berkeley: U of California P, 1984. Print.
This item is cited in the following documents:
CitationHarkness, Deborah, and Jean Howard.
Introduction: The Great World of Early Modern London.The Huntington Library Quarterly 71.1 (2008): 1–9.
CitationKagan, Richard L.
Urbs and Civitas in Sixteenth- and Seventeenth-Century Spain.Envisioning the City: Six Studies in Urban Cartography. Ed. David Buisseret. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1998. 75–108. Print.
CitationTaylor, John. The carriers cosmographie London, 1637. EEBO. Reprint. Subscr. STC 23740.
This item is cited in the following documents:
Cite this page
MLA citation
.
520 Class 1.The Map of Early Modern London, edited by , U of Victoria, 26 Jun. 2020, mapoflondon.uvic.ca/ONE1.htm.
Chicago citation
.
520 Class 1.The Map of Early Modern London. Ed. . Victoria: University of Victoria. Accessed June 26, 2020..
APA citation
The Map of Early Modern London. Victoria: University of Victoria. Retrieved from. 520 Class 1. In (Ed),
RIS file (for RefMan, EndNote etc.)
Provider: University of Victoria Database: The Map of Early Modern London Content: text/plain;520 Class/ONE: