The real estate and workers’ compensation attorneys at Pulgini & Norton offer diligent representation to individuals throughout the Boston region who are buying or selling property, or recovering from workplace injuries. We have more than 40 years of combined experience advising home owners and employees. We provide our clients with the personalized representation they need to assert their rights and protect their interests.
A job-related accident or illness can leave you disabled and unable to financially support your family and yourself. Massachusetts, however, provides a way for injured workers to receive certain benefits if they are hurt in the course of their employment. Under the state Workers’ Compensation Act, all employers in the state must carry this no-fault insurance coverage. It provides medical, wage, job retraining, and other benefits to employees who were harmed or became sick as a result of their work.
To qualify for workers’ compensation benefits, your injury or illness must be job-related and cause you to miss at least five days of work. Your employer’s insurer will review your claim to determine your eligibility. If you qualify, you will receive compensation for reasonable and necessary medical costs associated with your injuries, partial wage compensation, and possibly other benefits.
The amount of financial assistance you receive, and the duration, will depend on how much your accident or illness disabled you. The main categories are:
Your employer’s insurer may try to deny your claim for a number of reasons. For instance, it may dispute your eligibility, the extent of your injury or illness, or your need for certain medical care. It may also approve your claim and then later ask the Department of Industrial Accidents (DIA) to reduce your benefits. If the insurer denies or wants to modify your benefits, you can dispute the decision by appealing to the DIA. The dispute process involves various stages, including a meeting with a DIA conciliator and hearings before an administrative judge. You will need to present medical evidence to support your position. Our attorneys have handled numerous workers’ compensation claims. We can advise and represent you if your claim has been denied or if the insurer wants to modify your benefits.
At Pulgini & Norton, we advise home owners, buyers, sellers, and lenders in a broad range of real estate matters. We carefully review and negotiate pivotal documents in the purchase and sale process. Whether you are a buyer or seller, we will negotiate terms that protect your interests while helping you resolve any issues that arise along the way. We can oversee the closing to ensure that documents are properly drafted, signed, and recorded, and that funds are distributed in a timely manner.
We also provide counseling in financing matters. If you need to finance or refinance a mortgage, we can discuss how some provisions, such as a changing interest rate, balloon payment, or other term, can affect your ownership and ability to sell the property in the future. We can also conduct a title search to see if there are any clouds on the title that could affect a lender’s lien on a property. can advise you on your right to benefits and help you appeal any denial of a claim. We represent clients in Brookline, Hyde Park, and New Bedford, among other communities throughout the state. Call our office today at 781-990-2200 to schedule a consultation. You can also contact us by completing our online form.