Internet Casino Reviews is different
from other online casino reviews sites in that
we go above and beyond just giving information
and making you make your own
choice. We do highlight and review the major trusted
casino and sportsbook brands, but we also pick
out and detail the casino of our choice and why
we use them. We hope you enjoy our site and have
lots of fun gambling online.
What is your
interest?
Online
Casinos · Sportsbooks
· Gambling Information
Our
Premier Sponsor:
Advertise Here!
Our favorite
casino
Cirrus
Casino offers the most prominent casino games
including Blackjack, Baccarat, Caribbean Stud,
Video Poker, Roulette, Slots and more. The software
and infrastructure developed is the most technologically
advanced in the world!
It is cirrus' stated
mission to provide you with exclusive entertainment
and the best odds in the business. The payouts
on all the games are designed to be comparable
to the top casinos in Las Vegas and conform
to the strictest Nevada gaming rules. You can
play for fun (as long as you wish) or with real
money. They are fully licensed as well.
There are several
reasons why we chose Cirrus Casino over the
rest. First, they have some of the best bonuses
and manager offers around. Second, they use
real-time gaming (RTG) software --which will
be releasing a new version soon that will include
an ultra-enhanced version of Slots for those
die-hard slots players out there. Third, their
support is excellent. And finally, they are
right around the corner from us in Costa Rica.
So, we can always
get in touch with them easily or go through
their marketing firm which is just down the
street from us also. All of these things together
make Cirrus our # 1 pick.
Personally, I was
intimidated at first to play "Craps",
but ultimately I found this to be my best game.
I usually start out with $300 and play from
there, and I typically get to play for hours
and hours whether I lose or else choose to cash
out when I have tripled my money.
I do really well with this one.
I'm not the only
successful one either. In our first month of
promoting Cirrus Casino, we checked our stats
and one depositing player (real cash) made and
withdrew over $6,000 --and she was playing Keno!
I have no idea how anyone can win at that game,
but she really racked up on it. Then, just a
couple of weeks later, we saw a guy deposit
and win nearly $2,000 playing BlackJack. Of
course, there are those that lose occasionally
too, but it wouldn't be "gambling"
if they didn't! hah
I definately pick
"Craps" as my new favorite gambling
game, and I also like playing Blackjack and
Pai Gow Poker. My wife seems to be invincible
at "War", but I've never acquired
a knack for that card game. ;)
Great casino gaming experience:
Deposit Options:
Credit Card, Firepay,
Wire Transfer, Neteller, 900Pay, PrePaid ATM,
Citadel, OnDemand Funds.
Withdrawal Options:
Credit Card, Check,
Neteller, PrePaid ATM, CentralCoin, OnDemand
Funds.
Cirrus Casino also offers
Loyal Customer Incentives such as:
- Earn points for
every bet you make.
- Redeem points at a rate of $1 for every 10
points earned.
- Program consists of 3 levels: (1) standard
level where you can cash out a maximum of $500
of your comp points, (2) VIP level 1 where you
can cash out a maximum of $1,000 of your comp
points and (3) VIP level 2 where you can cash
out a maximum of $5,000..
Visit
Cirrus Casino Now
For you webmasters
out there, the Cirrus Casino affiliate program
is also not bad. It isn't the highest payout
around, but because we love everything about
them and can honestly promote them; we choose
them over the competition.
Our favorite
Sportsbook
We are still evaluating sportsbooks
and haven't yet chosen a "favorite."
If you have one that you'd like to recommend,
please email us and let us know!
Other Quality Sites of Interest (NOT Sponsored):
Green
Dragons Casino - casino offering real-time-gaming
(RTG) software and great bonuses.
Neobus Web
Directory - a directory and search
portal containing quality, hand-picked
sites.