Harry, Come Back by inhphtml
Rated: 1st-2nd Years [Reviews - 25]
Summary: Harry lands into St. Mungo's unconscious after some mysterious accident. Hermione blames herself, as they had a serious argument minutes before the so-called accident.
Hope in the Midst of Darkness by meryal
Rated: 1st-2nd Years [Reviews - 5]
Summary: Harry has just vanquished the Dark Lord but at a terrible price. As he starts to lose hope he sees something that might just save him from himself.
Her Worst Memory by babyeinstein12
Rated: 1st-2nd Years [Reviews - 35]
Summary: Harry looks back into Hermione's past and realizes that she deserves more than she gets..
Head Over Heels by Just Tink
Rated: 1st-2nd Years [Reviews - 8]
Summary: We all know Molly Weasley as the caring mother of the Weasley clan. But she and Arthur weren't always sensible parents... Sixteen year old Molly Prewett reflects on her feelings for Arthur Weasley the summer before her sixth year.
Hope by cinnamon badge
Rated: Professors [Reviews - 17]
Summary: Third place in Pud's Great Draco & Ginny Contest 2006. Ginny Weasley flees from a country torn apart by Voldemort's evil, and finds something she never expected to have again: hope.
He's Gone by malko050987
Rated: 6th-7th Years [Reviews - 2]
Summary: What if a person suffered through despair so overwhelming that it broke them? What if that despair not only took away their magic, but also all the magic around them?
Post-OotP fic, based around something Dumbledore says in HBP. It's obviously AU, and the entire premise of the fic is AU.
Reviews are appreciated
Home by malko050987
Rated: 3rd-5th Years [Reviews - 11]
Summary: The war is over, his battles have been fought, and he has to go home. But first, there is one last thing he wants to do.
Summary: If Severus Snape could remember how to cry, a rancid tear might have spilled down his cheek. But he did not cry. He only trudged on, ignoring the gaping black hole where a placid lake once resided, ignoring the ashen grounds and trees that still smoked with the memories of a great fire. He ignored the hundreds of bodies strewn haphazardly for miles. She wasn't one of them. He could still feel her heart beating.
He knows she is alive; he is drawn to her like a moth to a living flame. But when the moth seeks more from the flame than light, will she grant it?
SS/Hr, Disturbing imagery, Implied character death. Written for HermioneDancer for the SSSSS.. it.
Harry Potter and Viva Las Vegas! by Scheherazade
Rated: 3rd-5th Years [Reviews - 12]
Summary: Following a tip that one of Voldemort's Horcruxes had been seen in Muggle-inhabited Las Vegas, the Trio head there to destroy it... or so they think....
How He Knew by A House Elf
Rated: 1st-2nd Years [Reviews - 52]
Summary: Lily makes a slip-of-the-tongue that causes James to wonder.
Her Life reflected in a Mirror by Purplemage
Rated: 6th-7th Years [Reviews - 13]
Summary: One day in the life of Katherine Waters. After washing her face, she looked at her reflection in the mirror.When she was young, Katherine loved mirrors. She spent hours studying every angle and every pore in her face, but now she hated them. They were a constant reminder that her life was drifting away.
This story was the runner up for challenge #2 conflict of the June/July monthly challenge..