The Wood Price Quarterly (WPQ) initiative followed on from the ITGA Private Roundwood Price Database which has been operating since 2005 and supplied price information to ITGA members as a membership service.
The historical ITGA Private Roundwood Price Database (2005 – 2014) is available to Members in the Member Section.
The objective of the WPQ initiative was to make this information freely available to growers and the sector to assist in achieving Recommendation 18 of 'Mobilising Ireland's forest resource', as authored by the COFORD Wood Mobilisation Group.
'Taking into account the ITGA Private Roundwood Price database an independent national roundwood and product assortment price information system to be explored by Teagasc, farmer and grower groups, Coillte, the Irish Timber Council (ITC) and the Forest Service. The system to provide information on both standing and roadside prices and preferably to have a regional basis (Priority 1).'
The WPQ prices are published in the annual ITGA Forestry & Timber Yearbook and in ITGA Newsletters and are available for downloading below.
You will also find guidance on how to interpret tree size categories in WPQ for typical Spruce forests.
It should be noted that roundwood prices will fluctuate over time and by species and from location to location and no liability will be accepted by the Irish Timber Growers Association or UCD Forestry Section for the supply of the price data. All growers are advised to get independent advice in relation to roundwood sales and prices.
The Irish Timber Growers Association would like to thank Assoc. Prof. Aine Ni Dhubhain of UCD Forestry Section for her role in compiling these prices.
Contributions are invited to provide private roundwood sales price information for the current quarter.
UCD Forestry Section would be grateful to receive private roundwood sales data for compiling. All information will be treated as strictly confidential and will be retained by UCD Forestry Section and only compiled average prices will be released. Standard Timber Sales Data Forms for returning private roundwood sales data can be obtained from UCD by emailing This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.