Highlights:
China
(Beijing, Xi'an, Longsheng, Yangshuo, Shanghai)
This award-winning adventure will not only open your imagination to the wonders of China, but also packs plenty of thrills. It all begins in Beijing where you’ll lunch at the Great Wall of China, and explore the city’s historic highlights. Then you’ll take the bullet.
This trip has been expertly designed to suit the active explorer. The focus is on participation, with plenty of bonding experiences on offer. From a Tai Chi lesson, to climbing the cliffs surrounding the Dragon River this is a hands-on trip. But that doesn’t mean it skimps on the luxury. You’ll stay at four- and five-star hotels along the way, including incredible mountain lodges.
Enjoy a personalized vacation that best suits your needs, developed by one of our experienced destination experts. Relax during your trip with our 24/7 support and expert local guidance., a traditional neighborhood.
Transfer from Beijing to Xi'an via the high-speed Bullet Train. The train ride is approximately 6 hours.
The first stop of this private guided Guilin. The flight time is approximately 1.5 hours.
Transfer from Guilin Airport to Ping'an Village, home of the Longji Rice Terraces, with a private vehicle and driver. Along the way you will pass local farmers and villages of rural China, before entering Longsheng and the Longji Rice Terrace area. From here you will drive into the mountains towards Ping'an village, steadily climbing while passing by local minority villages, flowing rivers, and spectacular rice fields. Upon arrival in Ping'an, you will have a 20-30 minute walk through the village to the hotel. Porters will be available to carry your bags for a small fee, but it's also advisable to pack a small overnight bag to reduce the necessity of hiring a porter.
Please note: the walk to the village is uphill via steps and inclined pathways. A reasonable level of fitness and mobility is required for this excursion. Please speak with your sales consultant if you have any questions or concerns.
Transfer from Longsheng to Yangshuo with a private vehicle, driver, and English speaking guide. On the way, you can spend some time exploring the rice terraces, vistas, and rural lifestyles of Longsheng before continuing on to Yangshuo. A deluxe lunch will be provided at a local restaurant en-route..
Experience the local karst scenery at your own pace while exploring the villages and rice farms of the Dragon River area by bike. Stop en-route to enjoy lunch next to one of the cliffs in this. Snacks, fruit and bottle water are provided on this tour.
Transfer from Yangsuo to the Guilin airport with a private vehicle, driver, and English speaking guide. The transfer is approximately 1.5 hours.
Fly from Guilin to Shanghai. The flight time is approximately 2.5 hours. six or seven. Most performers have a minimum of twenty years experience.. globe-trotting guests to enjoy opulence from all aspects, while on their journey in China’s capital. Continuing The Fairmont Hotel’s global brand of unique hospitality excellence, The Fairmont Hotel Beijing has been recognized in various awards and accolades over the past few years, including Beijing’s Best Business Hotel by TTG Asia 2012, Trip Advisor’s Number One Hotel in 2012, Traveler’s Choice Award in 2013 for Luxury, and Traveler's Choice Award in 2014 for Romance and Luxury...
Fairmont Peace Hotel is situated at the famous Bund promenade and unrivaled shopping on Nanjing Road, making it the perfect place to explore Shanghai’s spectacular scenery and vibrant lifestyle. The hotel offers distinctive guestrooms, including luxurious suites, which blends art-deco-inspired furnishings with modern amenities.