Willow Smith
- More celebrity:
- jaden smith
- will smith
- paul rudd
- nicki minaj
- kanye west
- beyonce
- avril lavigne
Jaden does not approve. Miley is just being Miley, guys. Updated: MTV says the Smith family was actually watching Lady Gaga's performance.
11 Things Everybody Made Fun Of But Secretly Loved In 2014
23 Celebrities Who Are Too Cool To Be Under 21
The 18 Most WTF Jaden And Willow Smith Moments Of 2014
22 Awesome Pieces Of Fan Art From Willow Smith’s Instagram
Willow might have the most creative fans in the world.
Sydney Scott 2 weeks ago 59 responses
26 Times Willow Smith Was The Most Philosophical Person On Twitter
Move over, @officialjaden.
Krystie Lee Yandoli 3 months ago 90 responses
15 Willow Smith Books That Really Need To Exist For Real
“There’re no novels that I like to read so I write my own novels. And then I read them again, and it’s the best thing.”
Daniel Dalton 6 months ago 63 responses
Quiz: Willow And Jaden Smith, Or Some Old Hippie?
Whoa man, these kids are trippy.
Dorsey Shaw 6 months ago 116 responses
13 Reasons Willow Smith’s Comeback Deserves Your Undivided Attention
No one without a learner’s permit should be this cool.
Kelley Dunlap 6 months ago 131 responses
17 Of The Truest Things Willow Smith Has Tweeted
In order from true to TRUEEEE.
Lauren Yapalater 8 months ago 211 10 months ago 108 responses
-
Jada Pinkett Smith Calls Out TMZ For “Projecting” Their “Trash” Onto Willow Smith
They asked for it. (Literally, in this clip.)
Whitney Jefferson a year ago 59 responses
-
Some People Are Freaking Out About A Photo Of Willow Smith
That story and more in today’s gossip roundup!
Whitney Jefferson a year ago 15 responses
-
Will Smith’s Birthday Message To Willow Is TMI
Parents on Facebook, amirite?
Whitney Jefferson a year ago 117 responses
-!
Whitney Jefferson a year ago 93 responses
-.
Kevin Tang 2 years ago 73 responses
-
Willow Smith Drops Out Of A Movie So That She Can "Just Be 12"
That story and more in today’s CelebFeed Gossip Roundup!
Whitney Jefferson 2 years ago 14 responses
-
Willow Smith Actually Sounds Good Singing Over Radiohead
Yes, you read that right, Will Smith’s daughter, the girl behind “Whip My Hair” samples them in her newest song. And it’s kind of great.
Ryan Broderick 2 years ago 62 responses
-
Willow Smith’s Surprisingly Deep New Song
Love you, Willow. Stay strong bb. YOLO.
Matt Stopera 2 years ago 47 responses
-
Michelle Obama Works Out To “Whip My Hair”
Her gym playlist also includes Beyoncé, and J. LO! But — Whip My Hair. Awesome. Let’s all watch the video right here, right now.
Amy Odell 3 years ago respond
-
Now Willow Smith’s Hair Is Neon Yellow
First she shaved it all off, then dyed it green, and now her head is the color of a highlighter. Won’t she just grow it back so she can whip her hair back and forth for us again?
Whitney Jefferson 3 years ago 24 responses
-
Willow Smith Shaved Her Head
Guess she can’t whip her hair back and forth anymore.
Whitney Jefferson 3 years ago 117 responses
-
Willow Smith Shaves Her Head
The youngest Smith family member took to Twitter to show that she’s moved past whipping her hair.
stayasleep 3 years ago 10 responses
-
Willow Smith Is Eleven
Keep that in mind as you watch her shimmy. Nicki Minaj joins Willow for her latest video, “Fireball”. Shouldn’t you have to have breasts before you try and shake them?
Donna Dickens 3 years ago 46 responses