Complaint Review: Godaddy - Scottsdale Arizona
- Godaddy Scottsdale, Arizona United States
- Phone:
- Web:
- Category: Web design, Web Hosting, web site, Webdesign, website hosting, Website Theme, Websites, will not refund
Godaddy Refused Refund Scottsdale Arizona
listed on other sites?
Those sites steal
Ripoff Report's
content.
We can get those
removed for you!
Find out more here.
Ripoff Report
willing to make a
commitment to
customer satisfaction
I have been a customer of Godaddy since 1999. They have hosted our website. In April, we received another email about their services regarding website design, SEO, logo design and online protection. I agreed to have them start an initial design of both the website and logo. I spoke in length about the direction, colors and feel I wanted for the website, as well as the logo. We were wanting an American theme, red, white & blue with stars or flowing flag elements. I explained that we had over 30 years of experience and have been in business since 1999.
After about a week or two we were shown the first draft. What we received was void of an American theme or feel, there was no Red White & Blue, Flag either flowing or stiff. It even stated that we had been in business for over 30 years. Not only did they fail to execute the simple color scheme that we requested, they totally avoided any likeness to the American theme we were going for. Their own representative told me that the website I currently had (that I created) was actually better than the draft that the Godaddy team had sent me.
At this point with the direction and theme totally missed, I decided to ask for a refund. I was told I would be contacted in 2 - 5 days. That did not happen. I called Godaddy and started what I thought would be an easy process getting a refund. I had to call at least 4 times with an average wait time of 60 minutes. It has been over two weeks. I was contacted yesterday and told that a refund (LESS $946.00) would be available.
1. They did not follow simple guidelines when developing the site based on our extensive conversations.
2. They did not follow the color scheme that we had requested.
3. There was no American theme in the design like we talked about and requested.
On every front, Godaddy missed the mark in preparation, execution & design. As an act of good faith and to resolve the issue, I offered to pay $100.00 for the worthless attempt that they did make just to put this issue to rest. When I called again today there was yet another 60 minute hold. I asked to speak the the manager and even the CEO on a couple of occasions.
It seems as though they are able to insulate themselves from people seeking legitimate refunds through a series of excruciating hold times and unanswered promises. I have sent the BBB this information, but I believe this is a much bigger issue than the BBB can truly handle. This is a deep seeded company wide effort to fleece the consumer.
This report was posted on Ripoff Report on 05/18/2021.