... and here's the latest
Treetopian update...
... and here's the latest
Treetopian update...
All I have to do is think of this one
song by the great (if somewhat obscure) songster Hirth Martinez, "It's Winter
Again" and, well, it's like my personal psychic air-conditioning. I don't mind
the heat so much.
And warm thanks to everyone who sent
along comments of concern and condolence and support in regards to the passing
of our friend and brother, Ed Smith. He touched a great many people in his time
of life and for that we are all grateful. An E-special thanks to Ranger
Kidwell-Ross for hosting a fine fare-thee-well gathering at RangervilleUSA, a
perfect location for such an emotional outburst of loss, love, and life-goes-on
affirmation. None of it is taken lightly, but we can now laugh about some of
"those times..."
My own "life-goes-on affirmation
program" included some fairly inneresting musical exploits. Went to a real
groovy shindig up the South Skagit Hwy.- a great fresh gang of fun folks, a
creek to cool off with, and live music in a really funky barn/stage. Can't wait
til next year! ... Played a really fun set with Blue Healers at a Sunday Seattle
Peace Concert in Gasworks Park on a sunny Sunday afternoon, it's a powerful
feeling playing with those kids... me & Donnie don't plan on playing guitars
together like that, it just happens that way! Then the sublime pleasure of
performing (on my accidental 5-string guitar) with Laurette Langille and
Airplane Dave at the Wild Buffalo in B'ham to open up for the ever-amazing
Charlie Musselwhite and his awesome band the following Tuesday. Play through the
tough times and tears - sounds logical enough to me. And so I shall continue...
Come on along and join me at some of these
following exciting events:
***Thursday, AUG. 3rd: RICHMOND BEACH
RESTAURANT AND BAR- 632 NW Richmond Beach Rd, Shoreline WA. Come on out to this
charming little bistro and dig the Daddy Treetops Lounge Lizard act! Starts up
pretty early so you can get back up the hill before work on Friday! 7:00 pm til
11:00 pm No cover, it's a friendly neighborhood
place...
***Monday, AUG. 7th: MISSISSIPPI PIZZA
& PUB - in NW Portland, OR. Appearing at the invitation of EMILY HERRING, a
Texas-bred singer/songwriter with a distinctive twang and Son House tatooed on
her arm, what better excuse do I need to get down to Portland, it has been far
too long... I think we start the show at @ 9:00 pm.
***Wednesday, AUG. 9th: It's my
triumphant return to THE OLD 5th AVE. TAVERN just up the hill from Green Lake at
8507 5th Ave. NE. It's like your living room, with me playin' in it... 9:00 pm
until I run 'em all out or James has a conniption fit (but I don't think he will
if we tip generously...)
***Thursday, AUG. 10th: SALMON BAY
EAGLES Social Room - in historic and lovely Ballard, just off of NW Leary Way at
5216 20th Ave. NW 8:30 pm til 12:30 am
dTreetops & the Howlin' Tomcats: Jim
Plano on drums, John Keski on bass, others drop on in!
Jimie Jean is the best blues hostess
anywhere! Marcia (The Kitchen Wench) will be cooking up some blackeyed peas and
corn bread, etc. etc. for if you show up hungry.
***Friday, AUG. 11th: Well, I told ya's
about playing with BLUE HEALERS and this night is a big ol' party for the
release of their brand new CD "SHAKE YOU DOWN" - Dianne and Donnie have done it
again, and graciously invited me to guest vocal and guitar on one of the
tunes so I better appear to play it live with 'em... also Reggie Miles and the
Broomdust Band among others. Did I mention it'll be a big ol' party? Oh,
yeah, where is it, you ask?
CONOR BYRNE PUB 5140 Ballard Ave NW
(once again in lovely and historic Ballard)
A future posting shall inform as to
exact time, cover$, and what you should wear...
*** Also in a future posting: details of
the Victory Hights Yard Party and JokerFest featuring Jack Cook and THE
PHANTOMS OF SOUL and several other nefarious characters (nefarious!? Moi?!),
Saturday AUG. 19th - daytime and into the evening -
Well, that's about a plateful of ideas
for what you might want to do to catch my act in the near future. Thanks again
for your interest, support, and fanatical adulation.
As Ever Irreverent, ^^dTree
^^^
visit
Treetopia Enterprises: 206-525-8965