We need a clean funding bill now. Then we need a debate on the budget unhampered by proxy fights over "Ob.
Congress dodged hard choices with the Budget Control Act of 2011, which led to the slasher of sequestration cuts this year.
The Congressional Budget Office points out the unsustainability of current fiscal policies, but Congress still hasn’t begun serious talks about increasing revenue and achieving long-term reform of entitlements Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid.
Yes, Obamacare is an entitlement. But focusing solely on Obamacare is too narrow and premature. We need a bigger vision and to move forward.
The predicted dire consequences from Obamacare are largely speculative. If the law is the colossal failure the GOP predicts, it can say “I told you so” and pick up the political points for fixing things.
But the consequences of failing to fund the government — and possibly extending the dysfunction to defaulting on America’s debt — are certain, not speculative.
The damage will be real. The economic consulting firm IHS Global Insight puts the cost of the shutdown/slowdown at $12.5 million an hour, according to NBC News.
It is bad for the snail-speed recovery. Business doesn’t like uncertainty, as the opponents of Obamacare like to point out, and it doesn’t get much shakier than full-blown government meltdown.
It weakens Americans’ confidence in their government, fueling apathy and decreasing civic engagement. Thomas Jefferson said democracy needs an “educated and informed electorate,” not self-disenfranchised masses.
It makes the world’s greatest democracy look like a nerd getting hazed by his frat brothers. What kind of country destabilizes its own government?
The right-wing pundits say this is no big deal. They make jokes about the “inconvenient” shutdown of regulatory functions within the Environmental Protection Agency. “Non-essential” aspects of government? A punch line waiting to happen.
Have a big laugh at America’s expense. The rest of the world will.
Or take a hard look. The sore losers who couldn’t derail Obamacare with straightforward moves in Congress, the courts or the ballot box are holding the nation hostage.
It gets worse if the GOP can’t impose some order on the party’s wild bunch.
In a few weeks, Congress needs to raise the debt ceiling. Screw this up in the name of ideological purity and America becomes the deadbeat Dad on the international stage. Kiss the recovery goodbye. Then try to convince the world’s investors to let their money ride on the United States.
Since when has America been a bad bet?
It’s time to put down the tea pot and back away. America deserves better.