TELLTALE differences of style mark the campaign offices from which Republicans urge Mitt Romney supporters to vote, and those used by Democratic volunteers for President Barack Obama. In the swing state of Virginia the Republican state headquarters fuels its troops on pizza, a television is set to Fox News and volunteers make calls on internet telephone terminals with buttons to record voters’ replies, zapping the information to a central database. The mood is brisk and upbeat. “People are very energised,” says Christine O’Connor, a volunteer.
A few miles away in Fairfax County, a Democratic bastion, the mood is more emotional. A senior White House aide to Mr Obama, Valerie Jarrett, is visiting a field office (in a personal capacity, note staffers). Tucked away in a shopping centre, it is one of more than 60 Obama offices in Virginia—the Republicans have only half as many. Mrs Jarrett offers reassurance, and a sprinkling of Obama stardust. “We really need him, but the world needs him too,” she tells one young man. Hand-painted posters bear such slogans as “Keep VA Blue” and “Sushi 4 Obama”. A sign seeks donations of “healthy snacks”. Calls are made on mobile phones, with data entered into computers later. There is an emphasis on the local. On this particular evening, the focus is on assigning volunteers who will work from “staging locations” in volunteers’ homes in a final four-day push.
Beyond style, a difference of strategy divides the campaigns. A recent tightening of the race involved a surge among Republican-leaning independents, who are more certain to vote and are following the contest more closely than their Democratic equivalents, polls suggest. The Romney ground game involves building on that momentum and widening that intensity gap. In contrast, the Obama plan is about mobilisation, and adding Democratic-leaning voters (Hispanics, blacks and young people) to the pool of those who will actually cast ballots.
A week before election day, some 18m Americans had voted already. Mr Obama has emphasised early voting, allowed in many states, as a way for poorer Democrats to fit voting into busy lives. The president broke with tradition to vote in Chicago on October 25th. The idea was to open the eyes of “sporadic voters” who might not find themselves free to vote on election day, says Mrs Jarrett. In short, Democrats are betting that mobilisation will trump momentum.
Each side offers evidence that its ground game is winning. The Obama camp points to leads among early voters in Iowa or Nevada. They note that in North Carolina, turnout is up among young voters and blacks. A week from election day in vital Ohio, voters from precincts the president won in 2008 had cast 53% of early ballots, while 47% came from precincts that supported Mr McCain. Republicans cite swing states where the percentage of absentee and early voting by Republicans is greater than the percentage of voters who are registered Republican, and where Democrats are below trend, claiming that as a swing.
The Obama camp points to its advantage in field-office numbers: more than 800 nationwide, or more than twice the Republican number. “Buildings don’t make voter contacts,” retorts a Virginia Republican, boasting of gaining 1,000 new volunteers in 48 hours after Mr Romney won the first presidential debate.
Obama party workers say that months of canvassing have left them with finely-crafted lists of likely supporters. An Obama volunteer in Fairfax, Bob Polkinghorn, marvels that the voters on his call lists have already been contacted by the campaign at least once, and sometimes three times. In 2008 Republicans were “clobbered” technologically by Team Obama, concedes a Republican Party boss. This time Republicans are ahead, he says, thanks to clever data-mining and those internet-linked telephones that allow firm supporters to be separated from those who still need revving up. The Virginia party boasts of “Moms for Mitt” phone banks and “Warrior Wednesdays” when ex-servicemen call each other. Both sides claim target-voter lists of equal “efficiency”: the Romney camp reports that 63% of those they contact are supporters, avoiding wasted time and resources. The Obama camp reports 65% efficiency in voter contacts—a measure on which Democrats enjoyed a hefty lead in 2008.
Strip away the competing claims, and early voting data essentially tally with the picture of the race painted by state-by-state polls, says Michael McDonald, an electoral expert at George Mason University. Both parties have become more skilled at mobilising voters in the past decade, in part by returning to tactics familiar to politicians of the 1800s, he adds.
presidential election
See how America's voting system works
Read our in-depth election briefing
Full coverage of the 2012 presidential election.
In Fairfax Democratic volunteers are duly taught to ask where voters will vote, if they need help getting there, and finally when they might do it. “The very question—when do you plan to vote?—sort of locks them in,” says Mr Polkinghorn.
The problem for Democrats is that a much better turnout operation is not just desirable, but essential. On average, Romney backers are whiter, older, more affluent and have moved around less than the general population: all that fits profiles of those most likely to vote. Democratic hopes rest on numbers: their theoretical voter pool is larger. Both camps sound remarkably convinced that their version of the ground game will triumph. The final count will prove one side right.
Excerpts from the print edition & blogs »
Editor's Highlights, The World This Week, and more »