As a car-finance lender, you hope and trust that your customers will honour their promise to repay the money they have borrowed from you within the timescale agreed. And at the time of borrowing, your customer probably had every intention of doing so. However, in cases of multiple missed payments, building debt and no agreed plan to move forward, it may be necessary to repossess the vehicle against which the loan was secured.
Of course, this is upsetting for the borrower – apart from committing to a mortgage, buying a car is the biggest purchase most people make in their life. The FirstLine Recovery Repossession Team are professional, firm and unfailingly polite, protecting your brand and causing minimum distress to your clients. When we undertake an instruction our collection agents will visit your customer directly rather than sending letters and making phone calls, which are generally unanswered or unproductive. As a lender, if you’re at the point where you’re considering repossession you’ve already made phone calls and sent letters which haven’t resolved the situation.
Once contact is made our agent will attempt to settle the arrears through a digital point-of-sale terminal and arrange a Direct Debit for future payments. If the payment fails and the customer has no other means of making payment, our agent will ask the customer to remove personal belongings and return keys and documents. We then make a full assessment of the condition of the vehicle and ask the customer to sign an Appraisal Agreement. We always aim to come to an agreement with your client and cause minimum distress at a very difficult time, but where the borrower is absolutely refusing to co-operate our fleet includes vehicles capable of keyless total lift recovery.
FirstLine Recovery are available to fulfil asset repossession instructions throughout London, Surrey, Sussex, Essex and Kent. We recover cars, vans, motorbikes, campervans and light commercial vehicles. Our efficient office staff are available to take telephone and Email enquiries daily and will quickly collect the necessary information from you to begin the bailiff recovery process.
Avoiding Repossession
For customers who are worried that their car may be repossessed: