The Subaru Impreza WRX is known as one of the most desired tuner cars from the land of the rising sun – Japan. With a 2.5L turbocharged engine in a compact body the size of your grandma’s Honda Civic, to the uninitiated, it’s like a wolf in sheep’s clothing… a ninja amongst a mass of humans.
Just like a Ninja, this WRX is equipped with a plethora of concealed weapons used to conquer the track. Sure, it show a handsome, well groomed persona on the outside (thanks in part to the spectacular Rota G-Force wheels), but on the inside, it’s a different story. This car has been modified where it counts.
We were lucky to have photographed Aurick’s Impreza just after he gave it a thorough workout during the 2012 PornFest, before it sped off into the darkness to reign terror through the night. And we have the red apocalyptic sunset in the background for effect.
Read on to find out what modifications have been done to Aurick Go‘s Subaru Impreza WRX, turning it into the Ninja Impreza that it is today…
Specifications
Subaru Impreza WRX
Engine
ECU Reflash
AGR Exhaust Full Turbo back custom exhaust
Sard Vacuum Hoses
Brakes and Suspension
Goodridge Stainless Steel Brake Lines
Project Mu Slotted Rotors Front
Endless MX72 Front Brake Pads
Hawk HPS Rear Brake Pads
BC Racing V1 Coilovers
Wheels and Tires
Rota G-Force 18×8.5 +38
Nitto NT555 235/40/18
Aesthetics
STI CF Wing
Juran Rubber Chin
Red Tint Tail lamp Overlay
Yellow Tint Fog lamp Overlay
Interior
STI 5MT Duracon Shift Knob
Defi-link Advance CR Boost Gauge
Defi-link Advance Controller
Napolex Broadway 300mm Blue Lens Convex Mirror
Aurick’s Shoutout:
“I’d like to thank my parents first of all for supporting me with my hobby (even if andami laging sira or glitches sa oto, they’re very understanding of the nature of my hobby) the fact that they let me go out and drive at motorsports events means a lot to me. I’d also like to thank all my friends at ACE for influencing me throughout the build my car. Lastly i’d like to give credit to Migs Herrera, Andrew Dy and the whole crew at Speedy Fix for maintaining and keeping my car running despite all the hard runs I put it through.”
Related Stuff:
– See more coverage of the 2012 PornFest.
– See more customized and tuned Subaru Imprezas here.
– See more cars equipped with Rota Wheels here.
Yun oh! :D. Don’t forget it also gets air time :>
awwww yeaaaaa!
nice one Aurick!
Go Aurick Go! :)
nice one!
yahoo!!!! congrats on the feature!!!
Ninja? nothing great with the mods? Saw it a couple of times and it’s slow on the track
Jabongga – Hahaha! It’s the theme of the photoshoot bro. It really matches the car.
Jabongga – I love you pare. Sarap ng buhay niyong mga haters :))