We arrived and were given a very friendly welcome and were taken to our seats. We were given the menu and our drinks order was taken. You can see from the photo above that there are plenty of options on the menu and there are also a number of daily specials.
Food
There was a lot of time spent figuring out what we would have. For starters I went for the Bell & Felix pulled brisket chilli nachos with sour cream and salsa. Mr EmmaEats went for chicken satay skewers, peanut sauce, warm noodle salad with pickled chilli. Both the dishes were lovely, I really thought that the chicken satay was beautifully presented. The nachos were lovely and very indulgent, whereas Mr EE said his satay was lovely and light, he is still going on about how amazing his dish was.
For mains I had debated over getting the sweet potato and chickpea tagine or one of the specials, pork loin with black pudding mash and a cabbage, bacon and mustard cream sauce. As I was tossing this about in my head, Richard (the bell in Bell & Felix) said if it was him, he would go for the special as I could come back and have the tagine anytime. So it was decided, I went for the pork loin. Mr EE went for the breaded haddock goujons with pea puree, lemon mayo and french fries. Both our main courses were delicious, everything on my plate worked so well together and the black pudding mash was awesome. My only complaint was that it came out on a cold plate, but that didn't affect my dinner in anyway. Mr EE's haddock was great, that had been my first option but he got in there before me. The fish was perfectly done (and I think I will definitely have it when I'm back).
So next up was dessert, Mr EE decided he was going to be good and just have a coffee but I felt if I didn't have a dessert I'd only be half doing my job (well that's what I told myself), so I went for the salted caramel chocolate brownie and white chocolate ice cream. The chocolate brownie was amazing - the brownie itself was lovely but it was the salted caramel that did it for me. With every bite I would get a hit of the salted caramel and it was just delicious.
Food rating:- 4.5/5.
Service
The service was great, very attentive but not in your face. When I was being indecivise about which main to go for Richard was very helpful but not in a pushy or forceful way. Service rating:- 5/5.
Atmosphere
Whilst I would say that Bell & Felix is a warm, welcoming and friendly place, there is just something that I'm not sure about and I can't put my finger on it. It wasn't overly busy so maybe that was it, maybe it was lacking a bit of buzz! I love the back wall with Bell & Felix written on it, but I didn't take a picture as there were customers sitting underneath it! Atmosphere rating:- 4/5.
Price
So for this post I'm not going to rate the price given that I was invited to sample the food but it would appear that you certainly get great value for money and not only great value but good quality food too.
Last Words
I really like this place, it is such a great spot for dinner. I will definitely be back. There is something very homely and comforting about the food. Before I left I got talking to Richard and we had a lovely chat about Bell & Felix. I wish him and his team the very best with their new summer dinner menu. I haven't been here for brunch yet but I believe they do a great brunch and its so good you may even have to queue for it. Total rating:- 18 out of 20. (I converted the 13.5 out of 15 into a figure out of 20 so it would be in line with all my over reviews).
Bell & Felix are also taking part in the Southside Fringe Festival and are holding events on a number of nights, check out the poster below for what is going on.
Restaurant Details:-
Bell & Felix,
248 Kilmarnock Road,
Glasgow,
G43 1TT.
Website:- None
Telephone:- 0141 649 1684
Thanks a mil for reading.
Emma Mai xx
I've been to events at other places, but this was my first time in here. Great place. Food was good and seating was very comfortable. Also, very good view from where I sat. This is such a cool event space NYC and the atmosphere was equally amazing.