Community Justice Project: community lawyers who collaborate closely with community organizers and grassroots groups in low-income communities of color. Follow @cjpmiami
Miami Dream Defenders: multiracial group of young people who are organizing to build power in our communities to advance a new vision for the state. Follow @miami_dreamdefenders
(F)emPower Miami: queer culture shifters running a bail fund to free people from jail. Follow @fempowermia
Black Lives Matter Broward: alliance of community organizations and individuals aiming to abolish institutional racism, and to democratize and transform oppressive systems primarily via popular mobilizations. Follow @BlackLivesMatterAllianceBroward
Engage Miami: taking down barriers and building bridges to equitable civic leadership through voter registration, civic education, and organizing campaigns on the issues that matter to young people in Miami. Follow @engagemia
ACLU of Greater Miami Chapter: organization working daily to defend the individual rights and personal freedoms of every man, woman and child in this country. Follow @ACLUFL
Catalyst Miami: nonprofit organization identifying and collectively solving issues adversely affecting low-wealth communities throughout Miami-Dade County. Follow @catalystmiami
The New Florida Majority: independent organization working to increase the voting and political power of Florida’s Black and brown communities. Follow @newflmajority
Advancing
Color of Change: the nation’s largest online racial justice organization, Color of Change moves decision-makers in corporations and government to create a more human and less hostile world for Black people in America. Follow @colorofchange
Communities United Against Police Brutality: an all-volunteer organization that works to combat police brutality from many angles, including political and legislative action, education, research, and providing services and support for victims and their families. Follow @cuapb.org
Equal Justice Initiative: an organization committed to ending mass incarceration and excessive punishment in the United States, to challenging social and economic injustice, and to protecting basic human rights for the most vulnerable people in American society. Follow @eji_org
An Essential Reading Guide for Fighting Racism via Buzzfeed
Do the work: an anti-racist reading list via The Guardian
Anti-Racist Reading Recs via Bookshop.org
47 Black-Owned Bookstores Across the Country that You Can Support via Entertainment Weekly
From Hyperallergic: An Essential Watchlist of Groundbreaking Black Documentaries - These films illustrate both the undeniable threat of white supremacist capitalist patriarchy and the incomparable strength of Blackness.
Code switch by NPR
About Race with Reni Eddo-Lodge
Pod for the cause from the Leadership Conference on Civil & Human Rights
Black Lives Matter: Media and Where to Find It
Your Black Friends Are Busy: a growing resource for learning about anti-racism, and supporting the people & organizations doing important work for the Black Lives Matter movement.
Anti-Racist Resource Guide created by Victoria Alexander, MEd
Miami Organizations Doing the Work for Black Justice by Culture Crusaders
Blacklivesmatters.carrd.co/
181 Black-owned businesses across the United States to support
10 Reasons You Should Support Black Lives