- Author: Julie Sanders Jan 13, 2018,
Jan 13, 2018, 11:11
Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban benched Hurts on Monday after he completed just 3-of-8 passes for 21 yards for Alabama. CBS sports has him ranked as the No. 6 overall prospect and the No. 1 free safety in this year's class. "No disrespect to Jalen, but".
"I think preparation leading up to this point has been the key thing with our offensive coaches helping us throughout the process", Tagovailoa said.
The win gave Alabama its 17th national championship.
There will be many eyes on Alabama and MSU through the spring and into the summer months to see how Saban and Joe Moorhead handle their quarterbacks.
President of Saint Louis School, Glen Medeiros, said "The tradition here at Saint Louis School is one that has us believe that there's nothing that we can't overcome".
The first obviously begins with quarterback Tua Tagovailoa.
Before even committing to the Crimson Tide, of course Tua wanted to go to OR to follow the path his big bro Mariota set for him.
Andy Pappanastos is off the hook. The ensuing 40-yard attempt sailed wide left, leaving Alabama scoreless.
Saban rolled the dice and came up a victor on Monday night and his decision to throw in his freshman Tua Tagovailoa into the mix worked out pretty well. "He has unbelievable talent, unbelievable release and can get out of trouble as you saw"'. But, the young sophomore was there for his team every step of the way to give Tagovailoa encouragement.
For Hurts, the cooling off period is a good thing. It's hard to imagine any situation mirroring the night vs. day dynamic of Hurts in the first half Monday and Tagovailoa in the second.
It wasn't just Tagovailoa and Smith.
The players stormed the field and in one play, Tagovailoa became a hero for life in the state of Alabama. His 80-yard touchdown pass for a 20-7 lead midway through the third quarter seemed like a dagger.
Meanwhile, junior wide receiver Calvin Ridley has played in 43 games for Alabama, with 1 fumble that was recovered. Trailing by three and facing fourth-and-5 from the Dawgs 33 with 42 seconds to go, Sherrill called a timeout to discuss his team's options.
Both were against Texas in the 2009 title game, and both were by special teams, including an interception of a ball thrown by punter P.J. Fitzgerald. "He provided them some juice, got them some momentum, got the momentum swung back their way".
Tennessee will have to fight Alabama tooth and nail to land Tagovailoa. He drove the Tide into field goal range.
One play later, the Tide was national champions.
The freshman receiver originally committed to Georgia but de-commited after Mark Richt left the program.
"If you look at the Sugar Bowl, you could kind of see on the sidelines some coaches and players, knowing people in that building, they were pushing for Tua in the Sugar Bowl. Then we had another shot in overtime and we weren't able to do that".
For one former SEC coach, the move to Tagovailoa came a bit later than if he were still the coach.
Subscribe and download our College Gridiron 365 podcast on and.