Heading to MIPTV with a brand-new slate of formats? Get comprehensive information on what kinds of formats broadcasters are looking for in World Screen's Top Format Buyers 2013 guide. This downloadable report is a must-have as you head into MIPTV, delivering, for 30 channels across the globe:
Track Record: Programmers reveal which formats have worked for them recently—and which ones haven't.
Buying Guide: Detailed insight into what buyers look for in format pitches and their approach to paper formats and sizzle reels. We also surveyed programmers on if they prefer buying directly from a distributor, or from a production outfit in their own domestic market.
Support System: What kinds of materials do broadcasters expect from format distributors, and how much creative control do they want to make adjustments to a format?
Distribution: How are the broadcaster's own locally developed concepts being distributed worldwide?
Pitch Route: Who should you contact with your format ideas?
This comprehensive report is available for a short period at an introductory price of US$195, or $150 for WorldScreen.com premium subscribers. (The regular price is $245.)
Compiled by Bob Jenkins, the Top Format Buyers 2013 guide includes detailed interviews with:
Quinn Taylor, Senior VP of Movies, Miniseries and Acquisitions at ABC in the U.S.
Phil King, president of programming and sports at CTV
Thomas Valentin, head of TV channels and content at M6
Rüdiger Böss, senior VP of group programming acquisitions at ProSiebenSat.1
Jorg Graf, senior VP of production and acquisitions at RTL Television
Fabrizio Battocchio, head of the format department at Mediaset
Irene Dominguez, the head of the new projects department at Antena 3
Dermot Horan, director of broadcast and acquisitions at Ireland's RTE
Pete
Paavolainen, the head of formats at MTV3 in Finland
Leng Raymundo, the head of acquisitions and sales at the Filipino broadcaster ABS-CBN
Olli Suominen, the head of programming for domestic programs at Finland's Nelonen Media
Brad Lyons, director of production at Seven Network
Anette Romer, the head of acquisitions and formats at TV2 in Denmark
Catherine Wiernik, the head of formats at TV4 in Sweden
Jin H. Park, senior manager of acquisitions at CJ E&M in Korea
Mutlu Inan, deputy general manager at Turkey's ATV
Steve Gowans, head of factual entertainment at Channel 5 in the U.K.
and more.
To download a sample, click here.
This report is for individual use only. Dissemination to others is strictly prohibited. Please contact Simon Weaver at sweaver@worldscreen.com if you need any assistance with your purchase.