Koch Membrane Systems, Inc. (KMS), a developer and manufacturer of innovative filtration and separation systems, will introduce the new MegaMagnum water treatment system at the AWWA Annual Conference & Exposition at the Moscone Center in San Francisco, Calif. from June 12-16, 2005. The pre-engineered, packaged system utilizes 18-in. diameter MegaMagnum membrane elements, the world’s largest spiral-wound reverse osmosis elements, to significantly reduce the cost, footprint and installation time of municipal and industrial water treatment systems.
MegaMagnum systems require half of the floor space compared to a rack with 8-in. membrane elements. A single 18 x 61 in. MegaMagnum spiral element contains 2,800 sq. ft. of membrane surface area, compared to 400 sq. ft. in commonly deployed 8 x 40 in. products. The number of elements used in a MegaMagnum system is one-seventh the number of elements needed to produce the same water quantity and quality at the same fouling rate in a standard system with 8-in. elements operating at similar fluxes and pressures. This gives an 80% reduction in the required number of connections and O-rings, thereby increasing reliability and further reducing costs.
The pre-engineered packaged systems enable fast installation and start-up. These systems are available in four configurations, with nominal flow capacity ranging from 0.5 to 2.0 million gal. per day. To facilitate shipment and installation, the systems are mounted on one or two skids, depending on the system size. KMS has also developed a special system for easy loading and unloading of the large elements.
The standard package includes flow meters, pressure transmitters, a conductivity meter, a variable frequency drive and a human machine interface with touch screen, data trending and Ethernet access. Optional equipment includes systems for antiscalant dosing, acid dosing, chlorine monitoring and cleaning-in-place (CIP)..
For more information on the MegaMagnum water treatment system or Koch Membrane Systems, visit booth # 2225 at the AWWA Annual Conference & Exposition.