6 essential vegetable oils to grow your hair...
Do you dream of having long, healthy hair? Vegetable oils are the perfect care for this. We present you the best to promote hair growth.
Vegetable oils are unparalleled natural treatments to stimulate growth. You certainly know it thanks to the many articles that we write for you on the subject of natural care, vegetable oil is a very good option for those who want to take care of their hair naturally by following grandmother's advice as simple as effective. In an oil bath to intensely nourish dry hair, applied to strands as a mask before shampooing to repair brittle hair, or as a touch of nutrition at the rate of a few drops deposited on the lengths and ends (at the instead of a serum) to avoid split ends: each use reveals certain benefits for the hair. But it is also possible to make it play the extensions on the scalp so that the vegetable oil accelerates hair growth (or slows down hair loss and promotes regrowth in the event of seasonal or reaction hair loss due to stress or fatigue...).
It is definitely a multi-functional treatment that does not lack the beauty of our hair. Which vegetable oils to bet on to gain precious centimeters in length quickly? We've made a list of the best ways to care for your hair at home and show off XXL lengths easily.
It is arguably the best-known vegetable oil for hair care, and for good reason. Castor oil or castor oil of its English name (which is confusing because it has nothing to do with the rodent), is indeed rich in minerals and essential fatty acids which give it excellent nourishing and repairing properties. and strengthening. In particular, it contains ricinoleic acid, an omega 9 that is unique to this oil. Thanks to all this, it maintains an optimal supply of nutrients to the hair bulbs and is therefore extremely effective when it comes to countering hair loss or stimulating hair growth to have long hair quickly.
Note, however: given the fairly viscous texture of castor oil, do not hesitate to mix it with another more fluid oil (such as jojoba oil or nourishing coconut oil for example which will do your hair good) to make it easier to use.
Very nourishing thanks to its richness in essential fatty acids (omega 3, 6, and 9), this oil suitable for the care of all types of hair is particularly interesting for their growth because it is a natural veinotonic. In short, it strengthens the walls of the veins and stimulates blood circulation, which also helps mustard oil to promote a good supply of nutrients to the scalp like castor oil. The secret to seeing your lengths stretch again and again...
Note: we also advise you to dilute mustard oil in another more neutral vegetable oil such as jojoba, olive, or coconut before applying it to your scalp at home, not because it is viscous but because it may be a bit irritating to the skin on your scalp. Beware of overheating at the level of the skull if you massage it pure!
Also known as black cumin oil or Pharaoh's oil, black cumin oil (an aromatic plant with blue flowers) is less known than the other two oils above but it is just as effective in promoting growth. hair. Rich in fatty acids, oleic acid, palmitic acid, and vitamin E, black seed oil reveals powerful antioxidant properties and together strengthens hair follicles and lengths. It is therefore a ready-made answer to slow down hair loss or accelerate the growth of your locks.
Concentrated in antioxidant vitamin E and essential fatty acids (Omega 3, 6, 7, and 9) which give it nourishing properties very useful for dry hair that it cares for and softens, and to nourish damaged ends, vegetable oil avocado also contains vitamins A, B, and K which strengthen the hair fiber and vitamin D which helps to generate new hair follicles. It is therefore a perfectly natural product to boost growth!
Derived from the seeds of an herbaceous plant which is rather well known in the culinary field, fenugreek oil is also used in cosmetics for the skin and hair. Rich in fatty acids (omega-6, omega-9), minerals (iron, magnesium, calcium), vitamins (A, B1, and C), and antioxidants, this oil nourishes and strengthens the hair. It is thus an ideal response in the event of seasonal hair loss (it readily replaces anti-hair loss hair products) and therefore also a perfect active ingredient to stimulate growth.
Original and little known in the hair industry, onion oil is also one of the most formidable natural treatments for accelerating hair growth. It is thanks to its high sulfur content (a mineral that helps synthesize essential amino acids for hair) that it owes its growth properties. And since it also has nourishing and moisturizing virtues, it strengthens the hair so that it stays on top of its form until the ends as it grows. Bonus: naturally antifungal, it is sometimes the ideal answer to dandruff problems. It is then sufficient to apply it to the skin of the skull as an anti-dandruff serum.
Note: although its onion smell can scald some, it quickly disappears after shampooing.
Opt for safe products by preferably choosing an organic oil that does not contain chemicals.
favor mechanically cold-pressed oils without recourse to other processes to ensure the quality of your product.
Don't hesitate to add a few drops of essential oils to your oil to boost its effects even further.
Apply a small amount of the product (pure oil or a mixture of oils and essential oils if necessary) on your scalp by massaging it in circles with your fingertips before shampooing. Leave on for a few minutes (even if it means extending the treatment over the lengths in a hair bath) then shampoo.
The massage is just as important as the product chosen because it promotes good blood circulation which increases the effects of the oil on the growth tenfold.