Ulla's Dollhouse - Part 2 - Itty Bitty Progress
This time of year (with Halloween only 2 months away!) so much is happening around here, that I seem to be meeting myself coming and going. I did however have some time to continue work on my dollhouse last week, and as promised, will keep you posted! First, I stained and put in a 'chestnut' floor in the boutique. I also gilded and framed some wonderful old chinese embroideries for the walls, and base painted the 'french door' white. The dressing table has its first layer of pink paint, and the new 'shoe stool' from Mrs. Staggs, was given a hand-dyed velvet cover - hope you approve Lena! I also made a 'ceiling mural' from a 'sky' scrapbook paper and gold Dresden birds. Hopefully it will keep the little ladies calm while they are enjoying their delicious pleasures...
Next came the Monet-green shutters and flower boxes on the front. The house still looks 'too sweet' on the outside to me, but these help. I added a 'House Muse' sculpture over the front door (a ceramic brooch I bought at an art-fair in Minnesota years ago). Every house should have its own muse - don't you think?
On to the kitchen! I was inspired by Carl Larsson's wonderful blue and white kitchen, and put up blue wood paneling that will have a little shelf over it. I am thinking of adding the 'painted' blue/white tiles on top of the white tile floor - the white is so stark... Fresh from Cleo's class I am also envisioning a 'foodie mural' and perhaps even a quote over the windows like Carl has done...
The next room I started was to be the 'childrens bedroom' but has now become the 'children's playroom'! I decided that all the little ladies visiting the boutique (those with small children that is) might find it nice to have a safe place to drop off their little dears, while they enjoy themselves downstairs... I found these wonderful celluloid swans on ebay a few months ago, not really knowing what I needed them for. Now they are to be a special 'Swan Merry-Go-Round' for the playroom. There is of course one Drake in the bunch, for the little tomboy who visits occassionally. (I found a 'lazy susan' mechanism to put underneath so that the 'merry-go-round' will truly be merry and really spin!
Laure of the wonderful blog Laurelines has graciously given me permission to use these Swan drawings for a mural I am planning on doing at 'childs height' on the walls. I also found the original 'christmas card' that my parents gave me when they gave me this dollhouse kit, when I was in my early 20's. Its so sweet, that I am going to frame it and hang it in this room as well. So progess has been made - in itty bitty steps. More soon...
Oh what fabulous ideas you've realised here again Ulla! I love the soldered and gildered wall frames and the ceiling mural thing with the sky and golden birds and also this little ceramic house muse looks just gorgeous over the door! Can't wait to see the next steps! Also I love Carl Larssons colors! Btw I've just posted some shop windows from the city Bremen where I live and there is one window I was thinking at you when I took the picture ;-)
P.S.: My dollhouse had a carrousel as well in the nursery! Oh my now you make wanting to go in the basement and unpack all my dollhouse stuff lol I just can't think of a place where to put it beause it's huge.
Posted by: Carol | Thursday, August 31, 2006 at 04:25 AM
Omigosh, that wee little swan carousel. So beautiful!
Posted by: jungle dream pagoda | Tuesday, August 29, 2006 at 07:18 PM
Max keeps telling me he's going to make a time machine that can send you to any pretend place you want to go...can I have him send me to your dollhouse? I mean, I'll feel right at home since it's already painted the same colors as my old house! I really feel I won't be capable of maintaining the tidiness though, which would stress you out. So maybe I should just build myself my own dollhouse...OR make my real house super super cool!!!!
Posted by: Angelina | Tuesday, August 29, 2006 at 01:39 PM
How glorious! I am so excited to be a small part of this enchanting place!
Posted by: Laura | Tuesday, August 29, 2006 at 12:06 PM
This is out of this world! Delighted to have discovered you. Have you thought of joining Flickr.com so others can see your wonderful pictures and then come and visit here?
Best,
PB
Posted by: ParisBreakfasts | Tuesday, August 29, 2006 at 09:56 AM
I am loving your dollhouse, Corey is right you should set up shop for custom dollhouses and interiors. You are seriously talented! Love the chinese embroideries for the wall, the lovely tiled kitchen...when can I move in?
Posted by: cruststation | Tuesday, August 29, 2006 at 08:02 AM