..
Marcus Shaw Named Chief Executive of The Company Lab
Alumnus Marcus Shaw ’00 has been named as the new chief executive of The Company Lab, a nonprofit consulting firm in Tennessee that accelerates the growth of tech startups.Shaw was chosen for the position in a national search. CO.LAB officials said his success record in investment management, business consulting, and recruiting diversity in Fortune 500 companies made him a top contender for the chief executive role...
Morehouse Screening of ‘Crown Heights’ Brings Awareness to National Problem Unequal justice for poor and minority defendants emphasized in new film
Colin Warner spent 21 years in prison for a murder that he didn’t commit. And he came to Morehouse College recently for a film debut that warned Atlanta University Center students that his story could easily be theirs.
Warner’s heartbreaking journey to freedom was depicted in the new film “Crown Heights,” which is being shown in select movie theaters across the country. More than 600 people gathered at the Martin Luther King Jr. Chapel to see the flick in a special screening of the movie.... Head Coach Rich Freeman said that he is looking forward to seeing his talented team show what they can do and eliminate the mistakes that plagued them in their 23-10 loss against Arkansas-Pine Bluff. UAPB is a school that plays on the Division I-FCS level that the Maroon Tigers dominated in leading 10-0 heading into halftime last week.
Morehouse Scholars Challenged To Be Tech Leaders In “Brave New World”
When cars aren’t driven by people and instead drive people around, when IBM Watson gives more legal or medical advice than humans, and when apps use facial recognition to tell when someone is lying, Morehouse Men must be there to decipher this “brave new world,” said Robert M. Franklin Jr. ’75, Morehouse College’s 10th president. “Our challenge, Morehouse, is to live amidst that change and volatility and help guide it to human betterment,” Franklin said during the College’s Opening Convocation on Thursday, Sept. 14. “This is the simple art of living together, of building community and treating every person with dignity and respect.”
For Jeffrey Butler, the decision to come to Morehouse College had more to do with obtaining a top-tier education. “Education is universal no matter where you go,” said Butler, 20. “As an African-American man, I needed a safe haven where I can learn about my true self.” A native of Fort Washington, Md., Butler is a junior seeking a dual degree — in applied physics at Morehouse and mechanical engineering at another institution.
There’s a story about legendary Morehouse College basketball coach and athletic director Arthur McAfee Jr. and his father, Arthur McAfee Sr., that few may know about.
According to Dick Russell’s book, “Black Genius: Inspirational Portraits of America’s Black Leaders,” Arthur Sr. was approached by a woman in their hometown of Witchita, Kansas. Her son had been a star basketball player in high school and a great student, but began to stray when he got to junior college.
At Morehouse College, we promote the excellence that our scholars show each day, and that includes our student-athletes.
Coming off the heels of another championship win by our Morehouse Cross Country team in October, our Maroon Tigers basketball team, led by alumnus Grady Brewer '80, is in the midst of another amazing season with an overall record of 8-0 and 3-0 in the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Conference!
Former Spelman College President Beverly Daniel Tatum and AT&T executive Marvy Moore have joined the Morehouse College Board of Trustees. The two nationally respected leaders in education and business raise even higher the level of excellence for a Board that features some of the nation’s top executives and preeminent leaders across a variety of industries..