Do you Play-Doh? We sure do! My girls are big, big fans of Play-Doh and with good reason! This squishy concoction that can be manipulated by it’s users is nothing short of fabulous. Lil’ Pea loves to take all of the colors and squish them together, an activity that I forbid, yet she always seems to find a way to squish them together when I turn my head for a half a second! Big Pea loves the Play-Doh sets, creating everything from a pretend dinner to a My Little Pony that magically sports a mane full of Play-Doh strings.
Not only is Play-Doh a wonderful way for little ones to pass the time while having fun, it has many benefits to it’s small fans. It sparks creativity and imagination, helps to develop fine motor-skills and can be an outlet for frustration….OK so I through that last one in my own behalf! Go ahead mom’s and dad’s give the frustration thing a try…you’ll feel better, I promise!
Hasbro Toy Shop offers an array of amazing Play-Doh sets to get your little ones moving and squishing with Play-Doh fun! Starting at just $4.99 the Play-Doh Beach Creations Mini Set includes 4 cans of Play-Doh and 12 beach accessories for little ones to play with! The Play-Doh Burger Builder (read our review HERE) allows little one’s to show off their burger making abilities by creating a Burger, Fries and Chips with the special accessories included in this pack. The Play-Doh Spaghetti Factory magically makes pasta appear in the bowl and the Star Wars R2D2 set includes accessories to create a lightsabers and Obi-wan Kanobi characters!
Buy it!
The possibilities are really endless with Play-Doh and you can find an array of Play-Doh sets to set under your tree this year by visiting
Win it!
We want to get your Holiday Gift Giving started by offering one lucky “Deal”ectible Mommies reader a chance to win a $50 Gift Card to HasbroToyShop.com!!! Just visit HasbroToyShop.com and take a look at the array of Play-doh sets available. Come back here and tell me a Play-doh set that your kids would love!
Extra Entries: The initial entry MUST be completed before any extra entries will count!! All Extra Entries will be left in the “comment” section of this post! Each comment counts as 1 entry..so if you qualify for two entries, then leave two comments!!!
***Bonus Entry*** Mama’s Money Savers is also giving away a $50 HasbroToyShop.com Gift Card… Enter to win at Mama’s Money Savers and come back here to get 3 extra entries!!!
1. *3 Entries* Follow me on twitter and tweet about this giveaway
You can copy and paste this into twitter:
Win a $50 HasbroToyShop.com Gift Card from @dealectiblemom! 7th at Midnight! Winner will be chosen using random.org!