Article and Picture Submission GuidelinesWould you like to share your ideas, knowledge, and experience about model railroading with fellow model railroaders within the YouTube model railroading community? If so, then please submit your ideas about an article or story regarding your layout, building structures, or any other YouTube model railroad related project by emailing us a summary of your topic to ytmbemag@gmail.com. Please be as specific as you can. Also be sure to include your full contact information including your YouTube channel so we can easily reach you, and more importantly, give you and your YouTube channel proper credit.
Once we review your topic summary, we will contact you to let you know if your submission fits our needs or provide suggestions for any changes.
In general, your article should be relevant to the YouTube model railroading community, and have a tie-in to your YouTube channel. The article should be a reflection of, or in addition to, what you are showcasing on your channel.
We prefer that all written articles be limited to no more than 1,500 words (about four to six pages with pictures). The article text can be submitted in formats such as text files (.txt), copied directly into an email as text, or as a Microsoft Word document (.doc). Your submission should include the title, your YouTube channel, the article text, any pictures with captions within the article, and a paragraph about you - the author. The article should be your own work and should not have been previously published elsewhere.
In addition we will need you to provide separately any pictures, illustrations, or diagrams you want included with the article in JPEG (preferred) or PNG formats. Your photos or illustrations should support your article and help illustrate the points you are trying to convey. Any digital pictures you provide should be high resolution, clear, well lit, well focused, and fill the frame. When providing pictures and illustrations, please indicate where within the article they belong, and include a simple caption for each of the pictures.
If you are submitting digital pictures to be considered for the Community Collage section, then please provide at many pictures as you can, the more you provide the better the collage looks. So click away and show off your work or layout!
If you have any questions, please dont hesitate to ask, just let us know by emailing us at ytmbemag@gmail.com. We will be happy to work with you to make your article submission a success!