At the time, the folk song in Malta was non existent! With simple, folk-style catchy tunes written by Joe to the lyrics of leading poets, and later, to his own lyrics as well, The Greenfields embarked on this new venture. It was not too long before influential radio and television people became aware of this new group, with its new folk-style songs on the local music scene. In fact, backed by a big number of radio and television shows, The Greenfields soon managed to make the Maltese public aware of this brand new 'local' type of music - the Maltese Folk Song! In a couple of years, songs like 'Il-Karozzin', 'Il-Vapur ta' l-art', 'Il-Banda t'Indri', 'Lejliet l-Imnarja', 'Tgħidx le Katrina', 'L-Għajn', and many other songs became instant household tunes. Obviously, other singers and groups followed, and the Maltese folk song scene flourished.
Unfortunately, Charles passed away in February 1990, and the Greenfields lost his guitar playing, and the third harmony voice in their singing. However, Joe and Carmen decided to keep going on as a duo.
To mark these two anniversaries for The Greenfields, and for Maltese music alike, WE productions broadcast The Greenfields' Biography, on the National Television channel TVM, on Tuesday, 9 March 2010.
Since then, The Greenfields have stopped activity in Hotels and Nightclubs. However, they do still perform on the local scene, taking part in social activities of towns and villages, Festas, Maltese Folk nights, Radio and TV.
While we thank Smash Radio for the continual support shown towards the programme, we must also say a BIG Thank You, to the vast amount of listeners who made it a point to tune in to 104.6, every Saturday morning, to listen to the Programme, and even more so, to those who participated regularly on it.
On the labels of Coca Cola bottles one would find printed a short phrase from the most popular songs of each of the singers chosen. Using the mobile, one can scan the printed bar code on the label to view a 10 seconds clip of the song printed on the bottle. Then, one may send the message and clip to friends on their mobile.
The singers chosen by Coca Cola for this endeavor represent a spread of over 50 years, and a wide spectrum of different kinds of music produced in Malta. From Folk to Rock, to Pop, to DJing!
Three popular songs from The Greenfields were chosen, namely "Ċeklem, Ċeklem, Karozzin", "Il-Vapur tal-art" and "Il-Banda ta' Indri'"
The campaign was officially launched during a reception at Cafe del Mar, Qawra, on Thursday 24 July 2014.
So if YOU find a Coca Cola bottle with one of the Greenfields' songs, drink the contents, of course, but also use your mobile to view, llisten and share the songs with your friends! It's fun!!