Hear ye, hear ye, there's not much to report....
A few weeks ago, we were alerted on this forum to Australian ex-JW Mr Steve Unthank's pending legal proceedings against the Watchtower Society on the grounds that the Society - alone among organized religious groups - had refused to comply with the state of Victoria's 2007 legislation requiring all those who work with children to undergo police checks. Those of us who read more widely noticed the inflammatory religiosity of the edict Mr Unthank furnished for the court's pleasure. In trumped up language befitting someone who seemed to think he was destined for an important role in the scheme of things, Mr Unthank demanded that the Watchtower Society apologize - and the wording suggested he expected the Society would indeed be orderedvia the court to apologize to a worldwide audience. The Watchtower would - yawn - be brought to its knees. A terribly forceful justice would be unleashed...all from little old Victoria, Australia. One can almost hear the Watchtower lawyers losing perhaps a nanosecond of sleep...and then crashing into deep and peaceful sleep.
Expectedly, the media would have viewed Mr Unthanks edict as looking suspiciously like the product of an óbsessive mind itching to plunge in the first knife. Yet, the state of Victoria itself was not interested in taking any action against the Watchtower Society, despite the legislation coming up to its 4th birthday. Some elsewould have to stir the black pot. Of course, with a wide range of views doing the rounds, including apathy, Mr Unthanks was certain to get a few supportive quotes from sundry politicians and others expressing hardly surprising anti-JW sentiments. Every field has its dandelions there for the picking. Mr Unthank certainly capitalized on the limited verbal support, quoting an official here and there as speaking out against the Watchtower Society.That others viewed him as a nuisance got lesser attention, though.
It all came across as trumped up and desperate. A few posters on this site waxed excited about the pending action. The air was filled yet again with the breathlessness that keeps close company with sensation seeking. In the meantime, the air has left the room seeking the calm light of common sense. And what was reported by the media? Next to nothing in the mainstream media in Australia and zilch elsewhere - apart from a few websites who attract anything anti-JW, sound or otherwise.
We should stay tuned, though. Pester the press long enough and they will answer the door. Only they may not give you the coverage you have so ached for.