Genuine Thermos® Brand Goes On The Road To Hydrate America
Thermos Brand Kicks Off Multi-City #ThermosThursday Hydration Station Tour in Los Angeles, With Additional U.S. Stops to be Announced
SCHAUMBURG, Ill., Aug. 21, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Genuine Thermos® Brand recognizes the important role that water plays in our daily lives, and how everyday actions such as drinking water from a reusable container can make a world of difference, while keeping people energized, hydrated and healthy for an active life.
That's why on Thursday, Aug. 22, Genuine Thermos Brand will kick off its first #ThermosThursday Hydration Station in Los Angeles at The Grove located at 189 The Grove Dr., Los Angeles. Between 11 a.m. – 4 p.m., Angelenos are invited to bring their own bottles to fill up with fresh, clean water and to spin a prize wheel for the chance to win Thermos brand hydration bottles that will be filled up on the spot with drinking water to help them stay hydrated throughout the day – and for their future use to help make an environmental impact by using a reusable container.
"At Thermos we believe living green matters, so we're continuously developing products that provide on-the-go people with more sustainable choices. Carrying a reusable Thermos brand product -- instead of purchasing plastic water bottles – is a great way to stay hydrated and reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills," said Rick Dias, President and Chief Operating Officer, Thermos L.L.C.
Los Angeles marks the inaugural #ThermosThursday Hydration Station stop on a multi-city tour during some of the hottest months, August and September.
Tips for getting in the hydration habit
Enjoying fresh water out of a reusable container is one of the easiest changes you can make to help the environment, and your health. Genuine Thermos Brand offers the following tips for staying hydrated:
- Monitor your water intake to ensure you are receiving the proper amount of hydration. According to the Mayo Clinic, your body depends on water to flush toxins out of vital organs and carry nutrients to your cells. The Institute of Medicine has determined that adequate daily water intake is roughly 104 ounces for men and about 72 ounces for women.
- Take fresh water along with you in a reusable container to stay hydrated while on the go. You'll not only positively affect your health, but you'll also help to reduce environmental waste by eliminating the need for plastic water bottles that end up in landfills.
- A reusable container for water will also eliminate the need for paper or foam cups. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, Americans throw away 25 billion foam cups each year. Five hundred years from now, those cups will still be sitting in a landfill.
#ThermosThursday
During the year, Genuine Thermos Brand has taken over one of the best days of the week – Thursday – to commemorate the widespread and most popular uses of Thermos brand products. Each week, a celebration can be found at #ThermosThursday, along with special Thermos brand content on Facebook (facebook.com/Thermos) and Twitter (@Thermos). Consumers can win Genuine Thermos Brand products, learn about heritage items, get special retail promotions and pricing on Thermos brand products, and even experience Genuine Thermos Brand during events and milestones celebrated across the country.. For more information, visit facebook.com/Thermos, twitter.com/Thermos, pinterest.com/ThermosBrand or Thermos.com.
Brian Anderson
Carmichael Lynch Spong
(612) 375-8514
brian.anderson@clynch.com
SOURCE Thermos L.L.C.Back to top
RELATED LINKS