Veterinarian in Raymond, WA
Meet the Veterinarians & Team of Willapa Veterinary Service! We’re pleased to provide exceptional vet care for your pets!
Get to know our team!
At Willapa Veterinary Service, we are solely dedicated to your pet’s care! We look forward to getting to know you, and we hope you’ll take the time to scroll down and get to know us.
Eric Sutten, DVM
Owner/Veterinarian
Eric was raised in Elma, Washington. His family has owned cattle, swine, poultry, dogs, and cats. It is no surprise that by eight years of age he wanted to be a veterinarian.
Dr. Eric obtained his Bachelor of Science in Biology from Central Washington University. After graduating in 2006, he earned his Master of Science at Washington State University, focusing on immunology and infectious disease in 2009..
Eric’s professional interests include infectious disease, immunology, and endocrinopathies. He also enjoys soft tissue surgery and hopes to build on his experience in orthopedic surgery.
He also enjoys fishing, hiking, camping, following WSU football, and furthering his understanding of the biological world.
Kathleen Sutten, DVM
Owner/Veterinarian
Kathleen grew up on Bainbridge Island. Starting as a child, Kathleen was interested in the medical sciences and animals. Kathleen attended Occidental College in Los Angeles and graduated with a degree in Biology in 2006. While in college, Kathleen planned to pursue botany but decided to pursue veterinary medicine after graduation. Kathleen worked as a veterinary assistant for a few years while attending night school at the University of Washington to complete veterinary prerequisites before attending Washington State University’s College of Veterinary Medicine. Kathleen graduated in 2013.
Kathleen has worked as a small animal practitioner in emergency and general practice settings. Her medical interests include emergency medicine and critical care, ophthalmology, and soft tissue surgery.
When not working, Kathleen enjoys backpacking, swimming, and eating gummy bears.
Eric and Kathleen share a daughter and son, two dogs, 6 chickens, and a goldfish.
Jim Belknap, DVM, DACVS, PhD
Veterinarian
Jim came to us after retiring from Ohio State University, where he is an emeritus professor of veterinary surgery. Jim has two doctoral degrees from Colorado State University, his doctorate in veterinary medicine and a Ph.D. in cardiopulmonary physiology.
After veterinary school, Jim trained as a veterinary surgeon, first with an internship at the University of Georgia, then in a surgery residency at Michigan State University. He was board certified in veterinary surgery by the American College of Veterinary Surgeons in 1991.
Jim spent most of his career as a surgeon in university veterinary referral hospitals at Auburn University and then at Ohio State University, where he spent his time off clinics running research programs. Although he spent most of his career as an equine surgeon, he switched to small animal surgery after a hip injury limited his ability to work with.
Jim performs our orthopedic surgeries such as TPLO and fracture repairs, in addition to specialized soft tissue surgeries.
Jim also enjoys the internal medicine side of the practice; he says that it’s his research background that drives him to look for new state-of-the-art treatments for whatever disease–surgical or medical–with which he’s confronted.
Sara
Practice Manager
Sara has been with WVS since 2006. She is our Practice Manager, but over the years, she has worked in almost every position we have. She is capable of handling any situation and has the answers to almost any question. She has the power to make everything go smooth no matter the problem.
Olivia
Veterinary Assistant
Olivia has been with WVS since she was in high school. She started as kennel help and worked her way up to a Tech position. Olivia is a valued team member, always willing to put in the hours and help where ever needed.
Zella
Veterinary Assistant
Zella is a veterinary assistant and is currently in school to become a licensed veterinary technician (LVT). She works in both the Grayland and Raymond locations. Zella is a skilled team member and will be glad to help your pet feel comfortable during a vet visit.
Erica
Receptionist
Erica is the receptionist for both our Raymond and Grayland locations. She started working for the clinic in April of 2019. She has 2 cats and 2 dogs and loves working with animals.
Kiley
Receptionist
Kiley has been with us since 2017. She is the receptionist for our Raymond location. She will be one of the first and last faces you will see at your visit to WVS. She has two Abyssinian guinea pigs, ‘Mr. Nibbles” and “Figley Newton.”
Veronica
Receptionist
Veronica has been with us since 2008 and works in our Raymond location. She is a friendly, familiar face to many of our clients.