Select HTC phones to get unlocked bootloaders starting in August
Owners of the global HTC Sensation, the HTC Evo 3D for Sprint and the HTC Sensation 4G for T-Mobile will be the first to get the two-part update starting in August. The first part of the update is considered a maintenance release which more or less will prepare each device for the major update.
Part two will be the actual unlocking tool which will finish sometime in September, making this update a little bit of a dragged out process. The biggest hurdle of course is what the carriers will do. Will Sprint and T-Mobile allow devices with unlocked bootloaders on their network? That remains to be seen.
HTC not only made it clear that other devices will receive this update sometime down the road, but we can all expect to see devices shipping with unlocked bootloaders in the near future. Tell us what you think in the comments below.
source: HTC Facebook page via Engadget
Share:Facebook Twitter Google plus
12 Comments
1. Thump3rDX17 (Posts: 2160; Member since: 10 May 2010)
around the same time as Motorola it seems.
2. The_Miz (Posts: 1496; Member since: 06 Apr 2011)
Right, because Motorola couldn't do it with the Droid 3. [/Sarcasm]
3. Thump3rDX17 (Posts: 2160; Member since: 10 May 2010)
well here you are like i thought you'd be..i had to chuckle.
what is HTC thinking!? how could they do that to all their loyal customers? why don't they just do it now? can't be too hard right Miz?
6. The_Miz (Posts: 1496; Member since: 06 Apr 2011)
What are you yapping about? I don't see HTC pulling out any bs excuses unlike Motorola. Course, now we're just missing Squiggly or whatever the hell his name is b***hing at me about how I am being stupid just because I said Motorola needs to stop making up excuses and just start unlocking their bootloaders.
8. Thump3rDX17 (Posts: 2160; Member since: 10 May 2010)
what excuse has Motorola made? they let everyone know they were interested in unlocking the bootloaders and later on told us when they were going to make it happen, that's JUST what HTC has done, they're even matching Motorola's time table for the unlocking process. your criticisms towards Motorola about how they're handling the situation are now completely void. it's irrefutable Miz.
9. SuperAndroidEvo (Posts: 4620; Member since: 15 Apr 2011)
I have to agree with Thump3rDX17. Motorola WILL unlock their bootloaders. HTC is showing some great support for their phones. I have had my HTC Evo 3D since June 24th & by late August they will unlock the bootloader, that is fantastic! It shows the commitment HTC has to its fan base & the commitment it has for the developer circle also. Motorola will follow in the same footsteps. Motorola would NEVER soil their relationship with their fan base. It’s only a matter of time!
11. The_Miz (Posts: 1496; Member since: 06 Apr 2011)
Nothing is void as Motorola are dragging their asses with the announcement. Oh and why not just make good on their promise and release the Droid 3 without locking the bootloader? Because without the unlocked bootloader, the Droid 3 is a subpar phone even though unlocking it won't change that.
You won't be able to rid if of the horrible Verizon bloat or change the launcher from that godawful motorblur.
I am telling it like it is - Motorola are making excuses.
12. Thump3rDX17 (Posts: 2160; Member since: 10 May 2010)
Miz, Miz, Miz...Motorola's made the same announement HTC has, well actually more like HTC made the same announcement Motorola's made because they let everyone when it was going to happen first.
i can say the same thing about the EVO 3D and the Sensation you know also the Droid 3 is faster than both of those phones. not trying to knock HTC about the bootloader buisness but they're not doing any better than Motorola when it comes to that.
oh and the "Motorola Application Platform" is better than ever.
4. idaman12000 (Posts: 39; Member since: 03 May 2011)
Verizon htc phones need it as well
7. The_Miz (Posts: 1496; Member since: 06 Apr 2011)
r 10. gdubb (unregistered)
i don't understand why they waste their time locking the bootloader and mass producing a million products then coming back later and unlocking it, when they could just release it that way, then they could focus on making the phone better and getting out updates faster then worrying about bootloaders. this is all so stupid!