While giving his daughter’s Girl Scout troop a tour of his Ontario textile factory, Ira Newman, president of Action Embroidery, wished he could boast that his company created the patches on their uniforms.
“Instead, I had to tell them that they’re made in China,” said Newman.
The same goes for the majority of police, firefighter and municipal badges, something he hopes his company can change.
Newman, 58, along with founder and CEO Ozzie Silna have launched a strong “Buy America” push into the private, commercial sector. The huge pool of patch wearers includes professional athletic teams, car manufacturers, youth organizations, political campaigns, NASA and motorcycle clubs
It’s not as though business is unraveling. For the past six decades, Action Embroidery has sewn up a lucrative niche manufacturing emblems for the military, including flags, coats of arms, agency seals and badges.
“We want people to understand that manufacturing done in the United States isn’t that much more expensive than manufacturing overseas — maybe 20-cents more a patch,” Newman said. “Plus, ‘made in America’ benefits our economy, brings in tax revenues and puts people to work.”
Today the corporation produces nearly 80 percent of the U.S. armed forces’ official insignias —.
“Action does excellent work,” said Tom Casciaro, chief of the technical and production division of the Institute of Heraldry in Virginia. “We do the design work here, but we have to use private industry to develop the artwork into an item. Action has a lot of expertise and is very accommodating in making adjustments to an insignia.”
Among its latest projects, Action Embroidery will be producing a patch for a National Guard support group and developing a patch for the U.S. Army marksmanship unit, an elite team headquartered in Kansas.
“During the last 20 years, developing new items for the military has been part of the business,” Silna said. “We’ve kept growing because we’ve become more efficient, turning out 300 to 500 patches at a time, 20,000 to 30,000 a day.” To stay cutting edge and ahead of competitors, Action keeps $5 million worth of fabric in stock.
Action, “dirt poor,”’s little business, then known as Art Embroidery.
While his parents were visiting Latvia and Israel, 23-year-old Ozzie Silna, captivated by a customer’s Army patch, saw an opportunity with Uncle Sam. He called some military brass and won a bid for a huge order that forever changed the direction and fortunes of the tiny family embroidery business.
When his parents returned months later, “my father was shocked,” Ozzie Silna remembers. During their vacation, the canny entrepreneur had swelled receipts from $1,100 to more than $600,000. “My father said he’d give me a $50 a week raise,” he said with a chuckle.
Within two years, Art Embroidery expanded to five factories and 60 employees. In 1986, Silna relocated corporate headquarters to its current Ontario site, changed the name to Action Embroidery and hired Ira Newman in 1991.
The Bronx-born Newman, who wrote the computer software for the multimillion dollar machinery, said, “I’ve learned so much from Ozzie, who thinks out of box.”
The pair likes to quiz each other. “Ira, what the hell is this?” Silna asked, pulling one of scores of patches from his desk drawer.
“The U.S. Air Force Academy,” Newman replied, without batting an eye.
Follow Laurie Lucas on Twitter @laurielucas and check her blog on