Why Should I Buy Kava From GoKava? We directly import and sell only the finest organically grown 100% pure Vanuatu Kava roots. We guarantee our Vanuatu Kava powder is 100% pure Vanuatu kava roots and contains no leaves or stems. Vanuatu Kava is considered the best quality and most potent Kava in the world. Even though it is more costly to import Vanuatu Kava and we could buy less expensive Kava from Fiji and Hawaii, we dedicate our online store to nothing less than bringing you only the best Kava products. We also have unmatched customer service and ship your order same day if received before 2:30 p.m. PST.
What does Kava taste like? Kava is definitely an acquired taste. Kava tea/juice has a bitter, peppery taste. However, adding a juice of a 1/2 Lemon or Lime or some honey or coconut milk/water and/or bringing the temperature down by adding a few ice cubes makes it more palatable. There are many delicious Kava drink recipes - See our recipe page.
After a couple of cups your mouth will tingle and feel numb - this is a symptom of the narcotic effect on your body. You will feel its effects in minutes and all effects within 20 minutes.
What is Kava? Kava is a tropical evergreen shrub with large heart-shaped leaves and woody stems that grows naturally in Pacific Polynesia. Its thick roots are mashed or ground and then made into tea/juice by adding water and squeezing and filtering the kava pulp using cloth as a filter. A member of the black pepper family, kava's active properties are the kavalactones found in its roots. When consumed, kava relaxes the body and mind while maintaining mental alertness and focus. For many centuries, the pacific islanders have regarded kava with much respect for its spiritual and medicinal effects. Drinking kava promotes a mellow euphoric experience while the mind stays clear and content. Many drink kava to promote better sleep with no "hang over" effect and waking the next day with a refreshed feeling. Kava is also amazing for treating ailments like migraine headaches and cramps. Kava is also a positive natural alternative to drugs and alcohol. It has a long history of ritual and recreational use in Pacific Polynesia and is now a common herbal product used to reduce anxiety and stress, insomnia, and improve one's mood.
Who Should Not Drink Kava and what is the Recommended Daily Dosage? Kava should not be consumed by persons under the age of 18, or if pregnant, nursing or taking prescription drugs. Do not exceed recommended dose (32 oz. of kava tea per day or 1500 mill.
Is Kava Safe for my Liver? This is another often asked question we get from customers. It is important to note that reports of liver damage have been proven false.
Most of you have probably seen or heard about the FDA Kava warnings. Please note that there has never been any cases liver disease associated with the traditional use of Kava. Humans have been using Kava as a relaxing beverage for 3,000 years. In the South Pacific Island nations of Vanuatu, Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga kava drinking is a daily practice for hundreds of thousands of people. There has never been a pattern of liver disease connected to the drinking of kava in these countries. The natives of South Pacific do not have liver problems and they have been drinking Kava for thousands of years.
All our Kava products only contain the root of the Kava plant, which contain no harmful compounds.
Years ago, several reports had come out of individuals who were taking Kava experiencing liver failure. To err on the side of caution, Kava reported cases of liver failure.
Can I mix Alcohol with Kava? No don't do it! Kava products should never be mixed with alcohol. Kava increases the hepatotoxicity of alcohol and increases the chance of alcohol poisoning and if mixed together and consumed on a regular basis, there is a chance of liver damage/failure. We recommend that you wait at least 24 hours after consuming alcohol before consuming Kava products.