Romain Gavras wins Video Of The Year for Jamie xx's Gosh, Ninian Doff wins Best Director, Vaughan Arnell accepts Icon Award at UK Music Video Awards 2016
Romain Gavras collected the Video Of The Year award for Jamie xx's Gosh, Ninian Doff won the Best Director, and special honours went to Vaughan Arnell and Mike O'Keefe at the ninth annual UK Music Video Awards on Thursday night (October 20th) at the Roundhouse in London.
At the big night of the year for the music video making community, Adam Buxton hosted the UKMVAs 2016, with over 30 awards presented to honour the best videos and the greatest craft contributions to music videos of the past year. The spectacular video for Jamie xx directed by Gavras (above) won three awards - Best Alternative Video (UK) and Best Colour Grading In A Video as well as Video Of The Year - the final award of the evening presented in assocation with Promonews by singer and director Roisin Murphy.
Doff (below) also won three awards in all, winning Best Pop Video (International) for Miike Snow's Genghis Khan and Best Urban Video (International) for Run The Jewels ft Gangsta Boo's Love Again, before taking the prestigious Best Director prize.
In the other Individual categories, Oscar Hudson won the Best New Director award and Massive Attack were named Best Video Artist for the quality of their music video output in the past year; XL Recordings' Phil Lee won the Best Commissioner prize for the first time, for his work with Adele, Radiohead and others; and Roman Pichon Herrera, whose credits in the past year include the Gosh video, won Best Producer.
Other big winners on the night included Ian Pons Jewell, who garnered two Best Video awards for Nao's Bad Blood in the Best Urban Video (UK) category and Valentino Khan's Deep Down Low in Best Dance Video (International). The Chemical Brothers' Wide Open video won Best Dance Video (UK) - collected by directors Dom & Nic and producer John Masden - and the video also won Best Visual Effects In A Video, the award going to the visual effects team at The Mill.
Other highly prized Technical Achievement honours went to Holly Blakey (above, with Adam Buxton), who won the Best Choreography in a Video prize for her work on Florence & The Machine's Delilah; Patrick Meller, who won Best Cinematography In A Video for his work on Miike Snow's Genghis Khan; and Paul O'Reilly who won Best Editing In A Video for his work on Run The Jewels' Love Again. Marni Senofonte won the Best Styling Award for her work on Beyoncé's Formation.
Music video makers came from far and wide to attend the music video industry's annual awards bash. Barcelona-based collective CANADA were on hand to collect the Best Rock/Indie Video (International) award for Tame Impala's The Less I Know The Better. And Israeli director Vania Heymann was presented with the Best Rock/Indie Video (UK) for his and Gal Muggia's video for Coldplay's Up And Up. Both videos were also shortlisted for Video Of The Year, with Miike Snow's Genghis Khan and Chemical Brothers' Wide Open. Dutch animation team Studio Smack collected the Best Animation in a Video prize for De Staat's Witch Doctor.
In the five Newcomer categories sponsored by giffgaff – for videos made for under £5K by up-coming directors – Rafe Jennings won Best Pop Video for Will Joseph Cook's Take Me Dancing, Noah Lee won Best Urban Video for Jesse James Solomon's YPT, Michael Leblanc won Best Alternative Video for Holy Fuck's Tom Tom, Thomas James won Best Rock/Indie for Honeyblood's Ready For The Magic, and Lewis Rose won Best Dance Video for Beardyman's Mountainside.
It was a night short of winners' speeches but with moments of joy, surprise and spontaneous celebration - not least during the presentation of the special awards. Singer Will Young appeared on stage to present the Outstanding Achievement Award to Sony music video boss Mike O'Keefe (above) - for whom the award was a complete surprise. An accompanying film included messages from Olly Murs and Niall from One Direction, Sergio from Kasabian, Little Mix, Emil Nava, Jake Nava, Director X and Simon Cowell.
The UKMVAs annual Icon Award went to Vaughan Arnell for a career directing iconic British pop videos going back three decades. After a film which included contributions from Robbie Williams, Tim Pope, Daniel Wolfe and his mother Jean Arnell, Arnell accepted the award from his friend and fellow director Nez Khammal, with his mother Jean (above), dedicating the award to Robbie Williams' late manager David Enthoven, and then inviting everyone in the audience who had worked with him down the years to join him on stage.
Over 800 people attended the big night of the year for the British and international music videomaking community, making it the biggest ever UKMVAs. And as well as handing out the awards, the evening began with a dance performance choreographed by Holly Blakey, to live music by Gwilym Gold. The evening also provided the opportunity for the audience to remember four people whose lives were tragically cut short in the past year - with four short films paying tribute to Thomas Rhazi, Grant Branton, Lucy Booth, and Chris Massey.
• More UK Music Video Awards 2016 photos here
UK MUSIC VIDEO AWARDS 2016 - ALL THE WINNERS
Directors:: Capitol/Universal Music
Change or add info to this page.