You don't? You might want to read Jessie Hearts New York to become a believer again.
Title: Jessie ♥ NYC by Keris Stainton
Pages: 255
Release Date: July 7th 2011
Published by: Orchard
Source: Author (thanks Keris!)
Buy: Amazon | Book Depository
Summary:?
Journey through Broadway, see the Empire State Building and feel what it's like to be in New York in this sweet novel about meeting at the right place at the right time but never really seeing each other and finding love at the place you least expect to.
Jessie had always dreamed about living in New York. Now she's mending a broken heart and her mother is successfully conquering Broadway with a play she wrote, Jessie, together with her friend Emma, flew to the famed city that never sleeps, New York. Finn, a New Yorker, has been living in New York for quite a while and he's in a dilemma. He's in love with Sam. The only problem is, Sam is his best friend's girlfriend. They were part of the thousands of people living in a city as big as New York, but when Fate intervenes, will they grab the chance to be with each other?
Jessie was finally living her dream of being in New York but she also had problems to deal with even when she's in the city she wanted to live all her life. Jessie still feels like her mom loves her work more than her, and the guy she likes, Ben, might not be into her like she think he is. Jessie is a vibrant teenage girl. Very normal. She feels unloved by her mother and she just really wants to have fun in New York. Finn is this cute guy who's been pining for a girl he knew he can never have. He's a genuinely good guy who deserves to have someone to love him wholeheartedly. He's charming, but he's at a crossroads in his life. To follow a path that will make his parents happy or go out on his own and do what he loves?
Serendipity. I have never been one to believe in destined meetings or coincidences but I guess if something was meant to be then it will be.Finn and Jessie are just two amongst thousands of people living in New York, but they have been connected to each other closer than they think. I find it extremely cute how Jessie bumps into a guy in a diner, not knowing it was Finn all along. Or how Jessie talking about her father's love of architecture has influenced Finn to follow his dreams of being an architect himself than be an insurance guy. Finn didn't know it was Jessie talking. Both of them were present during the moments that defined certain parts of their life during their stay in New York and it gave them a deep connection even before they actually meet! How amazing and rare is that? Is it really possible?
The chance meeting and the way each of their lives progresses alongside each other felt unique for me. Simultaneously happening but totally independent of each other. It's certainly an interesting way of presenting stories of two people who will inevitably meet and realize they were meant for each other. There was enough drama happening on both Finn and Jessie to keep readers distracted and just when you think they will never meet, the story takes a magical turn and then everything falls into the right place.
It might just be me, but I have issues with Jessie's mother. I have nothing against older women dating younger men, but I felt that her shortcomings as a mother should not have been easily let off. Maybe because my values are different, but it took me a while to take in Jessie's family's situation. It was definitely awkward. Also! Emma is another interesting character whose story I'm looking forward to reading. And this book just made me want to go to New York!
Jessie Hearts NYC is a lovely story that tells us that sometimes, the person we need to complete us is closer to us than we think. In Jessie and Finn's case, it took them quite a few number of times, being in the same place at the same time, liking the same Sesame Street character and wanting to marry them, crashing one's birthday parties and meeting at a restaurant without planning to. Awfully romantic, sweet and entertaining, it's a story that shows us just how mysterious the universe works.
Content (plot, story flow, character):
Shining: Worthy of a Goddess' Love!
Book Cover:
I received this book free of charge from the author in exchange for an honest review.
Glad to hear you enjoyed this book. I've been hearing good things about it.
I want to read this so badly! Thanks for the great review!! (:
One of the best pieces of fluff around! I do love fluffy reads. xD - ComaCalm's Corner
A seems like such a sweet book.
I just read your review on Emma heart LA and I'm now on a mission to grab both of these up!