Social Racing
Become a part of the EastSail community with our weekly social twilight racing and dockside debrief.
Racing - details
Social club races run weekly for Eastsail graduates, on Saturday afternoons at 1:30pm from April to September and on Monday evenings from October until March at 5:30pm. $55 per race including snack and drinks, or $500 for 10 races until December 2018 and $60 per race or $550 for 10 races from January 2019.
Winter Racing Series Results
Points System:
1st place: 20 points
2nd place: 18 points
3rd place: 17 points
4th place: 16 points
5th place: 15 points
6th place: 14 points
Drops:
Drops will be applied throughout the season to discount each crew’s lowest scoring races. A drop will also be applied in the event a race is cancelled.
Weather:
If the weather is unsuitable for racing, we will put an update at the top of this page.
EastSail Club Racing
Waiver and Indemnity: The applicant (itself and for its heirs, successors, executors, administrators, assigns, dependents and other personal representatives) irrevocably waives, releases from and agrees to indemnify and keep indemnified and hold harmless upon demand EastSail (hereafter including its servants, agents, officers, employees) and other participants aboard or persons under EastSail’s control (the “indemnified”) against all losses, claims, causes of action, actions, costs, legal costs, expenses, fees, damages, fines and liabilities of any kind that may be suffered or incurred or made by any person, including me, against EastSail howsoever arising out of or in connection with the charter, sailing in any craft being used in connection with the activity carried on by the indemnified.
Warning / Sailing done at Applicant’s own risk: The applicant acknowledges that sailing is a recreational and/or sporting activity that involves a significant degree of physical exertion, danger and risk to the Applicant and other persons, including but not limited to the risk of temporary or permanent physical or mental harm, injury, disability, death or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of any of the foregoing. The applicant irrevocably acknowledges and accepts these risks and warrants that it engages in the activity solely and exclusively at its own risk. The applicant acknowledges and agrees that sailing can be affected by weather conditions that may change without warning and that there is an element of luck to the prevailing conditions.