Warranty
WARRANTY & TERMS AND CONDITIONS
EKW Group members hereafter referred to as ‘the company’.
‘The company’ Warranty customer satisfaction for a period of 90 days, from date of purchase on all mechanical parts sold.
1) UNLIMITED KILOMETRES: unless otherwise stated on front of invoice.
NOTE: Truck and performance parts come with 30 day warranty unless stated otherwise on invoice.
2) All warranties are parts only. In the event of a claim ‘the company’ will not be held responsible for consequential loss or damage, labour, towing, loss of income or down time. Due to failure of any part sold.
3) ELECTRICAL COMPONENTS: All electrical components come with a 30 day warranty unless stated otherwise. All electrical items will only be replaced, NO REFUNDS given on electrical parts.
4) ENGINES, GEARBOXES, DIFFERENTIALS: Warranty will be void and no claim recognised where such failure has occurred due to or caused by;
A) Incorrect or lack of oil lubricants or fuel.
B) Overheating or heat tab missing.
C) Failure to carry out proper maintenance.
D) Unauthorised repairs, alterations or dismantle.
E) Improve installation or application.
F) Accident damage, overloading or misuse.
PLEASE NOTE: In the event of any early signs of malfunction it is the customer’s responsibility to immediately cease operation and report problem to ‘the company’. Failure to comply with these conditions may result in further and serious consequential damage and void any warranty entitlement.
5) Engines are sold as long bare, any accessories supplied with the unit are for your convenience only. If fitted are not covered by the warranty and may not fit your model, we recommend that you use your existing accessories.
6) In the event of any claim being declined ‘the company’ reserves right to recover any costs involved in dismantling, inspecting repairs, out-of-pocket expense and freight charges.
7) In the event of any dispute a mutual third party may be obtained to adjudicate the claim.
8) ‘The company’ will not be held responsible for any verbal or implied representation.
9) All claims must be accompanied by this official receipt/invoice.
10) RETURNS: Parts will only be accepted back if they are in the same condition as sold.
A) No returns after 7 days.
B) No returns on cut sections.
C) Any special buy-ins will not be accepted for credit.
D) DO NOT dismantle any parts.
11) FREIGHT: ‘the company’ run a delivery and pick-up service in the Melbourne and Metropolitan area (subject to loading and unloading facilities).
Interstate- interstate and international freight can be arranged on behalf of the customer. Note that the goods are deemed to have left our possession and the customer deemed to have taken possession after the goods –
(A) Leave our premises or
(B) Leave our delivery driver’s possession
As such any goods in transit to the customer are the customers responsibility, this includes freight costs – insurance etc. Return will only be accepted if returned to our premises, freight pre-paid unless arrangements are made with ‘the company’ who will direct you to which carrier and mode of transport should be used.
We would point out that where it is reasonable to send goods that are required urgently by a costly overnight fast freight company it is rather unwise and uneconomical to return the trade-in or same component if it is faulty, by the same costly freight system. It would be, we suggest more prudent and economical to return such goods by a far less costly general carrier or rail freight.
12) PANELS – INTERIOR PARTS: Are sold as inspected, and will only be accepted back if the incorrect model has been given. A full money back refund will be given in such cases. It is up to the customer to ascertain the correct make, model and body type required and ‘the company’ cannot be held responsible if incorrect information is given. Panels, interior parts etc. will only be accepted back in the same condition as sold.
To protect your warranty becoming void we suggest the following:
A) Radiator and cooling system to be flushed.
B) Renew all belts, hoses, radiator cap, spark plugs, oil and oil filter.
C) Diesel – injectors and injector pump to be serviced and fuel filter to be replaced.
NOTE: This warranty is given to and notwithstanding any rights which you may have under Commonwealth and State Law.