Here is my registration story! As, I told you all earlier, I started a new job today. That caused me to worry about my Ironman registration. My plan was to take my lap top and be online at 11:55 to get in right away. I get work, hook up my laptop, find the local wireless . . . I'm all set.
The head attorney (my boss) was out of the office most of the morning but discussed me attending an 11:00 meeting. I immediately got nervous about the timing. I wasn't sure where the meeting was going to but thought I could make it work. My co-worker then came in and started discussing an 11:00 meeting. That meeting was two doors down in a conference room. This must be the meeting the boss was talkig about. PERFECT! She said it wouldn't last long and if it ran over I could excuse myself to go register. PERFECT!
At 10:59 I started to walk out of my office for the meeting when the secretary comes in and gives me the directions to a DIFFERENT 11:00 meeting at the tribal casino. UGH! The tribal casino is 10 minutes away. I book it to my meeting hoping it will be short and that I can get back in time. Last year I thought registration stayed open for an hour. My year it was 20 minutes. I knew my window was small no matter what.
I attend the meeting and it was awesome. I think I'm going to enjoy my new job. BUT the meeting went past Noon. By the time I travel back to my office, it is 12:37. I try to register and it is sold out. I about cried. Without talking to my husband, GULP, I went ahead and signed up for a Foundation slot. [For the non-Ironman folks reading this, Ironman registration is pricy. Regular registration is $650. A Foundation slot is $1300! Half of the Foundation entry fee goes to charity. Can you believe that?! ]
I had to do it though. I couldn't get shut out of this race. I am so excited to train with all these other ladies. It will be such a better experience than the last time. I can't wait!
So that is my story. I am registered for Ironman Arizona 2012. I better spend a lot of time training b/c I won't be able to afford to do much else!
PS - I told my husband and he was fine. He said "Merry Christmas!" He is the BEST!
Does it make you feel any better to know half is tax deductible--no--well I'm trying! So glad you're in, I've been checking FB all day to check up on you. Congrats on the new job too.
Yay Ron for being such a great supporter! We are really doing it!
Y'know I would've cried if you didn't make it in. THANKS RON!!!
So glad you got in even with the big hit in the wallet!
I started a blog too so I can remember this year :)
I signed up for IMAZ yesterday too! I feel kinda lucky considering it sold out online in 10 mins. Hope you girls have a great year of training and enjoying the journey.
Believe me, I used the tax deductible line when I was telling him what I did! So glad he was a good sport! Excited to go to your blog Johanne! Donna - Welcome! I'm glad you found us so we can go on this crazy adventure together!