Want to get up close with the man called Prince Alain (official romanization of Necrom's name)? Well check-out the trailer for Kamen Rider Ghost: The Legend Of The Hero Alain.
This series of specials (4 episodes in total) that will be included in the Kamen Rider ghost Blu-ray set that will be relased in April 13th focuses on Alain's point of view on what it's like to be a human. The theme song will be entitled Timeless Blue and will be performed by SUNAHO.
Categories: Blu-ray , Ghost , Kamen Rider , News , Tokusatsu
All images and videos here are property of their respective owners and used for reference purpose only. We claim no rights to it unless otherwise stated.
13 Responses
so it's alain not aran?
I want to watch this now!
Also will this be cannon or is it like a hyper battle dvd or something?
Hmm that actually looks more interesting then the series itself ( i hope it gets better now that necrom made a strong first appearence)
Well, from what I can see, this shows Alan in a whole new light. Would this be canon and show him as a redeeming character, or simply affirm his role as a villain when it ends. I mean, wow, he hangs out with the Ghost gang. Seriously, they didn't even recognize him?
We'll see what happens when it comes out and gets subbed.
the katakana written a-ra-n, so its should be aran/alan not alain
But he's not a hero, he's a villian
Since people are being stupid already, I believe the point of Alain as we're now calling him is that he's a hero in his own mind and from our perspective as humans following the hero of Ghost he would be a villain but what he's doing isn't wrong for his people. Did any of you even pay attention when Robin Hood was dropping knowledge? He's probably gonna be an aloof ally who struggles with betraying his kind or his own friendships and relationships he develops with humans.
i hope he stays a hero because if he does maybe he won't die or it could be chase again?
This seems like something sad in the end is going to happen, I'm looking forward to this
Let's just say he's an anti-hero for now. I wouldn't surprise if Alan (or Alain, or whatever you like to call him) is going to change sides, like how Chase did.
"the katakana written a-ra-n, so its should be aran/alan not alain "
But it clearly has "Alain" in the title card when it pops up. If that's what's Toei says, who are we to argue?
But Kamen rider likes to give its villains redeeming qualities. Plus if you think about it, in a battle of people from opposing worlds, there are no heroes or villains, it is merely a battle of ideals. Aran's ideals are that individual life and physical bodies mean nothing, mostly because as a ganma he never had a need for such things. Takeru and by extension the human race find this to be evil because that is how our world is. Villains and heroes don't exist. As said by Kamen rider sangou, " If you you lose you are labeled by history as evil."
I think it is.