.
Hillman Hunter? No, Paykan!
3:20 PM on Mon Apr 14 2008
By Murilee Martin
OK, I'll be first to ask, "What's that song?".
@Isetta: It sounds like the Middle Eastern version of "Knight Rider"
That pink was enough to make my eyes bleed.
That looks like it'd be a cool little toy to put a big motor in, but there's no room in there for anything bigger than a Singer & a couple of squirrels.
They made good for drag cars, BUT JUNK is JUNK
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe the pickup truck version of the Paykan is actually still in production, sort of a Paykanamino, so this thing's not completely dead yet.
When are the Iranian kids going to start giving these babies the full Shawarma Shuttle treatment: [ru]
+ Watch video
Watching that video and hearing that music gives me an overwhelming desire to dash out and paint all the nude statues surrounding my Beverly Hills mansion in flesh tones, complete with dark pubic hair... what, you say that's been done already...? Nevermind then...
Sold as the Sunbeam Arrow in North America too.
@charles_barrett: really? I heard the music and now my office has blue carpet and gold curtain rods!
Hey Guys if we can't FUCKEM UP worse Let Use a PUKEJO Motor
Great, now I'm craving falafel.
@charles_barrett: Geez, I used to drive by that place on my way home from work every day.
@Isetta: I think it's "Iran" by Flock of Seagulls.
Trivia: The London Sydney rally is probably Chrysler's greatest international competition victory, technically.
@graverobber- Same great taste, new low price!: Ugh.... can't believe you posted that....
@ranwhenparked:
Not only is the pickup version still listed on Iran Khodro's website, but they announced that the Paykan is going back into production in Sudan, so there's plenty of life left in it yet.
@FreeMan:
Rootes looked at a V8-powered version of the twin-under-the-skin Sunbeam Rapier, and when the project was abandoned a few private individuals built their own. No reason you couldn't do the same to a Hunter/Paykan.
If memory serves, the Peugeot engine was for the diesel model. Petrol models from the 80s on used the Hillman Avenger engine in place of the Hunter one.
Remember that Hillman by then was part of PSA Peugeot-Citroen so it was all in the family.
Another Paykan variant still in production is the Peugeot RD - a Peugeot 405 body fitted with the oily bits from a Hillman to make it rear wheel drive.
I want one. You know, so my wife can have flashbacks about her childhood.
"Hey baby, I picked up the new car."
*incomprehensible screaming in Farsi*
"Glad you like it."
when i was in iran back in '03 the majority of objectsin the 50mile suroundings where white Prides and white Paykans or Peykans or whatever they're spelt, but the current successor (samand, which is a peugeot 405 that looks like a passat) is considered too expensive so more people have resorted to the Kia Pride, making an invasion more justified.
there is a plan where you can hnd in you old Lincoln Continentals, chevrolet blazers and novas to get a pPride for 10% off price or something.
I had a new '67 Arrow & then a new '69 Hunter GT. (same as the beige one) Mechanically ok, but always things falling off!
@thatguy01: And it was almost won by a Citroen DS until some drunk Aussie cops in a Mini crashed into it. Still, the 120-horse Holbay-tuned Hunters were pretty friggin' sweet. My fellow Sunbeam Alpine owners have developed lots of ways of squeezing more power out of the Hillman/Sunbeam/Rootes Group powerplant.
Note to self:
1. When your battery is almost as big as your engine block, you've probably got a shitbox.
2. This car defines the difference between the third world(s) and the first two.
3. People all over the world love whatever cars they can find--homely, underpowered, strange--a hoon or a nerd will find it and love it.
Love the music. Does it come standard with the car?
I'll take mine in orange, with bundle of snakes header.
The song is only fitting, the crooner declaring his endless love in flowing farsi verse.
The Paykan is declared (among other things) to be the quintessence of:
Kindness
Light
Love
As well as 'the source of ones energy'
and the 'fire of the world.'
In Iran, it seems that passion is a given.
Start a discussion:
Login with your username and password below. Or comment on this post via email.
Forgot your username or password? New User?