The Foundry has been home to some of SMP's most stunning weddings. It's this gorgeous combination of industry and elegance and the fusion makes for a backdrop that basically cranks up the style notch of any style of wedding. Now with that said, we're pretty sure this celebration could hold its own against any canvas with a bride and groom that are all glowy and gorgeous, a style that is bohemian and full of love and a few little tidbits of total unabashed gorgeous. Photographed by Jenny Jimenez with stunning florals by Saipua, this wedding has love written all over it. Click here to see even more.
From the bride… Andrio and I have covered a lot of ground in our relationship. We met while both living in Seattle, started our relationship commuting between Philly and New York and finally got engaged on the same Manhattan rooftop where we shared our first kiss after I relocated to New York. We knew we wanted our wedding to be a celebration of the two of us and the things we hold most dear. With Andrio’s family near Portland, Oregon and mine from outside of Detroit, planning a wedding in either of our hometowns felt too far removed from the other’s roots. We opted to host the event in New York, our current hometown, and use it as an excuse to bring everyone together and give them a little taste of the things we love most about being New Yorkers.
Both of us being designers (Caroline is a textile designer in the fashion industry and Andrio is a graphic designer), we wanted to find a space that would allow us to put our own special spin on the look and feel of the day. We wanted an event that was intimate, casually sophisticated and filled with warm candlelight, wonderful wine and food. The venue also had to allow dogs, as we wanted our long-haired dachshund, Marlow, to act as ring-bearer for the ceremony (he literally dragged the flower girl down the aisle on the day of). When we discovered The Foundry in Long Island City, we knew we had found our spot. From the beginning we agreed to keep the color palette very simple — just shades of white, ivory and gray to soften the New York industrial interior of The Foundry with rustic elements to remind us of the Oregon Coast where Andy grew up vacationing and we have shared many happy trips to together.
Both of us coming from very close-knit families, Andy and I knew from the start that we wanted to create our reception menu to pair with wines from The Grade Cellars, a vineyard owned and operated by my uncle and aunt in Napa Valley. We were able to create a menu that perfectly complemented their wine by working with Shaun Roberts at Great Performances. Great Performances has a farm in upstate New York that they source a lot of their produce from. We were proud to be able to feature locally-gown produce in our wedding menu as well as food from other local vendors such as Van Leeuwen Ice Cream, Brooklyn Roasting Company Coffee and Tom Cat Bakery (which is actually located right across the street from The Foundry — talk about fresh bread!). Shaun also helped to include some additional personal items into the menu such as serving mini lumpia (a traditional Filipino snack since Andrio’s family is from the Philippines) during the cocktail hour as well as helping us recreate the famous Pecan Pie Sundae from Buttermilk Channel, our favorite Brooklyn restaurant. My father said that the only thing wrong with the wedding was that it ended too soon. Our wedding day was without question the best day of our lives and when I look at these images I am so happy to see that everyone had as good a time on our wedding day as we did.
Wedding Photography + Photo Booth: Jenny Jimenez / Day-of Coordination: Amanda Diamondstein-Cieplinska of Stellina Events / Wedding Venue: The Foundry / Florist: Sarah Rhyanen of Saipua / Catering: Shaun Roberts of Great Performances / Hair: Christa Thomas of Cutler Salon / Makeup: Lauren Iavarone / Wine: The Grade Cellars / Wedding Stationery Design: Andrio Abero, The Groom / Wedding Stationery Printing: Studio on Fire / Wedding Gown: Marchesa via Gabriella Bridal Salon / Bride’s Shoes: Lanvin / Bridesmaid Dresses: J.Crew / Bridesmaid Corsages: Ban.do / Bride + Bridesmaid Bracelets: Katherine Sturgis / Braided Bridesmaid Belts: DIY, The Bride / Groom’s Custom Suit: Martin Greenfield / Groom’s Shoes: Rachel Comey / Groomsmen Suits: J.Crew / Men's Ties + Pocket Squares: Rag & Bone + Sid Mashburn / Wedding Bands + Bride’s Earrings: Conroy & Wilcox / Ceremony Music: The Chapin Sisters, Friends of the Bride / DJ: Mandy Graves of 74 Events / Cake Designer: Kate Sullivan of LovinSullivan / Cake Toppers: Lil Cake Toppers / Officiate: Catherine Bordeau of Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture / Hotel: New York Athletic Club / Transportation: Carey Transportation / Ice Cream: Van Leeuwen / Coffee: Brooklyn Roasting Company / Bread: Tom Cat Bakery