Allowing myself this acculturation period has actually been very beneficial for me and my long term goals. The new school term began on January 4, and at this time I was ready to introduce two new projects to Saint Paul's Primary School based on what I have observed, and how I felt I could best be of service. The first is in conjunction with the community organization I am paired with, St.Paul's Family Initiative. It is a literacy project that aims to promote family bonding through reading. Basically I spend a couple of hours each week in the classrooms doing an interactive story hour. Sometimes I read to the students, sometimes they read to me or to each other. I ask question and hold discussion to check for comprehension, and the kids really enjoy the books! I then encourage them to keep reading at home by facilitating library check-outs. Each week they get a book to take home and read with their parents, and when they bring the books back to class, I give them a chance to tell us about the story. They are always a little shy at first, but the promise of stickers always helps to loosen them up a bit. Yeah I am totally not beyond bribing the kids to read :-). Friends and family back home have even gotten involved with my reading project, and started a MUCH NEEDED book drive! My Mom and sisters have put their passions (read Panama blog) to great use and have rallied there friends and neighbors to donate old children's books to the students at St.Paul's primary school. I am so please and proud of everyone for helping me out and making this contribution to my kids. THANKS GUYS!
The second project I introduced this month is one that is really near and dear to me, definitely my pet project. It's an after school girls group, and I feel so strongly about it, that it is difficult for me to articulate why I think it is so important, but I just know that it is. I started this group at two different campuses, with the idea that I could provide these young women with a safe and healthy environment in which to explore issues that are specific to them. Our projects will focus on body image, leadership skills, dating & sex, challenges at home, goal building, health & wellness, etc. I also set aside time each week for reading or doing homework, trying always to reiterate to the girls the importance of education. So far the group has been very well received, the girls at each campus are really taking ownership of it. At St.Paul's they have chosen to name themselves The Precious Girls Club, and at Newton Ground they are the Girls Friendship Club. Both groups are still in their infancy stages, but I am REALLY REALLY exited to see each them grow. Here are some photos from this weeks' activities:
St.Paul's "Precious Girls Club," fitness hike. The girls and I took a walk to our local beach. Initially I told them no swimming, but come on, you can't take kids to the coast and expect them to stay dry. As soon as they hit the sand, the threw off their uniforms and jumped in. In one photo, you can see me yelling, "ok, but only 5 minutes!"
Newton Ground Primary ""Girls Friendship Club," working quietly and productively during homework hour. Don't let them fool, they do not always act so sweet!