Valentine’s Day is a hard holiday to shop for. The gifts never really seem quite straight forward; it all depends on how long you’ve been dating, how serious you are and what type of relationship you have. Here’s how I see it: if you are in a new relationship and don’t want to go all out, think small – buy her chocolates, flowers or that cute teddy bear you eyed up at Hallmark. They sound cliche, but sometimes we girls are simple. If it’s a new relationship, she’ll just be happy that you got her anything! You can personalize your gift even more by adding a sweet note or turning it into a DIY.
DIY gift ideas even work well for more established couples. I have to admit, they are personally some of my favorite gifts, because you know your significant other put a lot of work and time into making something special for you! Some ideas for DIY gifts are this romantic quote mug or other mug designs (all you need is a mug and a sharpie!) or a ‘reasons why I love you’ box or card book, but you know Pinterest has so many more.
On the other hand, if you are looking to buy your girl something unique and exciting this Valentine’s Day, there are so many other options for you as well. Hey, maybe you should even surprise your mom and sister with a cute little Valentine’s Day gift. The items on this Valentine’s Day gift guide range from $6 to $225, so there is bound to be an option for any relationship, budget and girl.
Kate Spade New York ‘Gramercy Grand’ Watch
Wow, we’re starting off big here, but I wanted to go in order of appearance, so don’t get discouraged. This is BY FAR the most expensive item on the list, and there are much more affordable options in the intro and to follow! But if this Valentine’s Day is an extra special one for you two, and you want to splurge on your present, this Kate Spade Watch is classic.
Tisty Tosty LUSH Bath Bomb
Let her know that she deserves to be pampered. LUSH bath bombs are an inexpensive yet luxurious treat. This is a gift that would be great for your girlfriend, sister or mom! Everyone needs a relaxing bath every once in a while – and there is a scent to fit them all.
Kendra Scott ‘Mabel’ Necklace
The ‘Mabel’ Kendra Scott necklace is a great staple, meaning if you’re not sure what style jewelry she would enjoy, ‘Mabel’ will probably suit her. There is nothing too flashy or stylistic about it. It is a simple yet elegant, classic piece. It’s also petite and dainty, perfect to wear everyday and think of you.
Lancôme L’Absolu Rouge Définition Lipstick
Lancome carries some of my favorite lipsticks. I don’t have time to reapply my lipstick throughout the day, and with Lancome, I don’t really have to. Even after the initial coat wears off, it leaves your lips a pretty color close to the first shade – just slightly more muted. If she loves beauty and makeup, pick her up one of these (available in more colors)!
Kate Spade New York Stud Earrings
Again, studs are kind of a classic, and you can’t go wrong with them. Although these Kate Spade earrings seem like a bold choice with the hot pink color, there are other color options available for any style.
Victoria’s Secret Mini Eau De Parfum Gift Set
Choosing a fragrance for someone can be hard! Especially considering fragrances smell different on every person that wears them. That means that what it smells like in the store, might not be what it smells like on her. This mini eau de perfum gift set allows you to play it safe and allows her the excitement of trying a new fragrance each day. It’s fun, and you might have provided her with the opportunity to discover her new favorite scent!
Xhilaration Long Fur Throw – Cream
A cozy blanket with a little note about your next cuddle session would make any girl swoon. Wrap it up with a movie, candle or her favorite book to take your gift to the next level.
Feel lame just buying her chocolate? With these personalized M&Ms, she’ll be wowed by the fact that you went out of your way to personalize them – because it’s the little things, you know? Customizing these little treats can get out of hand and expensive quickly, but if it’s done right, it can be worth it and done on a budget.
May Designs offers cute, customizable notebooks for every style, meaning there is an option out there for the woman in your life. With May Designs, you have the option to change the cover design, interior pages and add a monogram. The cover pictured above is Burst of Pink. Make this gift extra special by leaving her a special note on the first page or spice it up by giving her a fun pen set as well.
I want to know: what is your favorite gift idea on this gift guide? Do you love getting DIY gifts? Let me know in the comments below!