Clean tidy house with wonderful ocean views. Abundant with wildlife.Walking distance to lovely beach. Friendly community and neighborhood. Bird and animal lovers paradise. Tranquil, breezy 2 story home; kitchen, laundry, lounge and dining down stairs, bedrooms and wrap around balcony with hammocks upstairs. Secure and safe. Perfect
Peaceful, wonderful surroundings & wildlife, lush primary jungle forest mountains. Close to lovely beach. Nice breezes. Clean tidy home.
Guest Access
Everything, kitchen, laundry, lounge, hammocks, gated parking, etc
Interaction with Guests
As wished
The Neighborhood
Friendly, safe n secure, lush and abundant, possible to walk to the beach with a little hike down the hill
Getting around
Bus stop at bottom of the hill. Taxis a short call away in Uvita. If have own vehicle 4wd reccomended
Other Things to Note
Clean, tidy people please. Beneficial to have your own 4wd rental car for exploring the surrounding areas. I can help with bookings of rental vehicles and any tours in the area you may wish to do, which there are many. Please note, if there is more than one guest there will be an extra $10 charge owed for each person extra, ie 2 people $39/night
Darren's Place is located in a really sweet village up in the hills at the end of a quite steep road. It's beautiful up there with ocean view and walking down to the beautiful beach takes about 15 minutes, you should bring good hiking boots though. Close by is a really nice restaurant we loved to go to. Darren himself was very welcoming and kind. Although we asked for accomodation on last minute he responded immediately and was willing to host us. We were really happy that he shared his beautiful place with us. Thanks again!
J'adore cette maison, son âme, sa quiétude, son emplacement. C'est le meilleur endroit pour se relaxer, se ressourcer.... retrouver un peu de quiétude. Elle est agréable, chaleureuse.....et bien agencée.
Elle est l'image de son propriétaire : conviviale, chaleureuse
Darren est gentil , à l'écoute, patience, cool, serviable, toujours souriant, adorable
Je reviendrai sans doute avant de repartir.
Merci Darren pour ce que tu es, ce que tu fais, ton way of living is so great !
It was so nice to meet darren and his friends! We spent a really good time in his house and sunday sunny morning he woke up us to go to kayak in the ocean to see the walls, we havent seen them but spent a really good day, lunch in a beach club was so good! Really really please to meet him, hope to see him again, one day, in our place in cannes!!!! Darren is a nice personn with a good vision of life!!!
Darren made us feel at home. We had a nice big room with an incredible view from the balcony. Pretty much an outstanding view from all areas. Very peacfeul and beautiful area. Close to the beach. If you don't have a car its good to get all your groceries before going. If you do have a car then it is very conveniently located to everything close by.
I loved staying at this cozy hideaway. You wake up to the sound of howler monkeys and parrots. A great place to soothe the soul and spark the spirit and love for nature. The view is terrific-overlooking the jungle out towards the ocean to see whales with wildlife walking through the backyard. Darren is a welcoming, kind, and personable host willing to share his piece of paradise. He provides great information of things to do and places to see and assisted in making arrangements for car rental, taxi, tours etc. The accommodations were very clean, comfortable, and homey. I hope to go back!
Love nature, animals and wildlife, music, guitar, surfing, diving. Healthy living, good food and good times. Peaceful and adventurous. Think outside the box. Love to travel and experience new faces new places, it's what drew me here :)