A Lobster Dealers Worse Fear!
It Could Happen!
It Could Happen!
Beverly Farms, MA – The North of Boston Arts Center (NOBAC) will be hosting their first open house on September 2 from 5-7 pm at the Hastings House in Beverly Farms. This event will be held in conjunction with Hastings House members and will give parents, families and prospective members a chance to meet with the NOBAC and Hastings House staff and board. Attendees can also learn about this Fall’s schedule of art, music, theater and cooking classes; tour the Hastings House facilities; and enjoy refreshments as they mingle.
NOBAC after school arts classes are available at the Hastings House on Monday-Thursday from 4-6 pm for children ages 5-13, beginning September 7th. In addition to the after school arts program, NOBAC also puts on two musical productions every year in the Spring and the Fall. This Fall’s production is The Tale of the Oysta: a seafaring Whoops, which was written entirely by students in Henry Allen’s Playwrights Unite! class this summer, is based on about 20 songs by Cole Porter and George & Ira Gershwin.
This young nonprofit was founded in May of 2008 by Beverly local, Bonnie Rynkowski, with the hopes of giving children a creative outlet and direction in any area of interest – from visual arts and crafts to jazz, opera and organic cooking.
Over the last year, NOBAC has seen a considerable amount of growth with the addition of Manchester-By-The-Sea resident Henry Allen, its artistic director who has directed the shows that NOBAC students perform in the Spring and Fall, and is a member of the core faculty.
Faculty member and local business owner, Jessica Brand, is excited about the growth she has seen at NOBAC over the last year:
“I remember this time last year when we had two or three kids in each class and only a handful of parents getting involved. This year we have seen so many families really get excited about NOBAC and the invaluable experience we’re providing for their kids. We hope that this open house will only help us expand our community and open up more opportunities for us to reach out to local kids who are interested in the arts.”
The Hastings House is located in Beverly Farms across from the Train Station at 14 Oak Street.
For more information on NOBAC and its list of fall classes, visit theNOBAC.org, call NOBAC-8-0033 (662-228-0033), or email info@thenobac.org
Gloucester Poet Laureate, Ruthanne (Rufus) Collinson will open Celebrate Gloucester with a world premiere poem written especially for the occasion. Having been recently appointed Gloucester ’s Poet Laureate, Ms. Collinson agreed to prepare a poem specifically for the opening of this historic concert and celebration, which immediately follows Gloucester ’s annual Schooner Festival on Sunday September 5th.
Following Ms. Collinson’s poem at 3pm will be 7 hours of music featuring local rising stars and culminating with national recording artist Roomful of Blues followed by Grammy-Award-wining saxophonist Charles Neville, who joins Henri Smith and his band New Orleans Friends & Flavours featuring Stanton Davis.
Tiickets and info at
Preschool &Youth Soccer Leagues
(Dyno-Mite ages 3.5-5) 9:00AM*
(Mites- Grades K-1st) 10:00AM*
Fee: Members $50 Community $75
It’s never too early to start learning soccer! Join us Saturday morning as we continue on with our Youth Sport Leagues. Each soccer league is age specific and will help to teach the game of Soccer. Participants will be instructed on the fundamentals of soccer including dribbling, passing and shooting. Players will be placed on teams with volunteer coaches. Team Tee Shirts will be distributed on the first day of play. League begins September 11th. Registrations are due September 1st. The league is 7 weeks long.
For more information see the parents or coaches handbook located at the front desk. All those interested in coaching are asked to join us for a meeting on September 7th at the YMCA at 6:00p.m. For more information contact Katy Milne at milnek@northshoreymca.org.
*You will be notified no later then September 8th for schedule. Schedules and times are decided on how many registrations we receive. Times are subject to change!
Katy Milne | Youth & Sports Director
Cape Ann YMCA
71 Middle Street | Gloucester, MA 01930
Hi.
Ok, Help me out here!
WTF IS THIS!
Is it a Tall Rat? A Fisher Cat? Or just a poor Ferrat let go by its irresponsible owner?
Photos taken at the State Fish Pier.
I’ve had lens lust for a while now for the Nikon AF Micro Nikkor 60mm f/2.8. I couldn’t justify paying $500 for it, so I checked out the auctions on Ebay and found several of these lenses. I watched the bidding, and they seemed to go for around $275. I knew that my limit was $250. After getting outbid on four auctions, I persevered and won last night for $236.50! Happy girl!!!!
Click on the photo for more info on this lens.
This is one of the top three weekends to visit Gloucester IMO. We usually have clear dry weather and the schooners are just gorgeous to go aboard. If you haven’t already got tickets to go aboard the Thomas Lannon I’d call Kay in the office ADSAP and make arrangements. Captain Tom will show you a great time and tell you all about the Schooners in port as you glide around Gloucester Harbor. Check out The Thomas Lannon Website here for details on how to get tickets for a cruise.
If you haven’t been to watch a Roller Derby Bout featuring our own Boston Derby Dames then you have missed out on watching the number one dollar for dollar entertainment value in the State of Massachusetts. Roller derby is fast paced, action packed, semi violent, the skaters are friendly and you don’t need to be a rocket science to enjoy the sport. For more info about the Boston Derby Dames click here
We’ve covered The Boston Derby Dames for the past two years first finding out about it through Krush Puppy, a local who kills it on the flat track! Once I went to my first bout I was hooked. So when Krush asked if they could shoot the 2011 calendar down at the dock I told her I think it would be a perfect fit. The team’s image is tough and blue collar and the mascot is Pinchy McMasshole a giant foam lobster- what place would be better than right here at Captain Joe and Sons!