My favourite suite of products from the current Holiday catalogue is {Wonderland}. I am completely obsessed with it. I love the stamp set. The Specialty Designer Series Paper. The Vellum. The embellishments. Well, everything. The only problem was the antlers in the stamp set and paper. I was stumped on what the heck I could use them for. I sat down determined to make something with both the paper and the stamp. I'm sharing what I came up with for both in one project - I did make another with the stamp, but will share that later this week.
I love that this paper is shiny. Not glittery, but actually shiny. It's pretty stunning paper, even if it does have antlers on it. Now, hunting is definitely not my thing... deer heads, and antlers seem to be all over the holiday decor this year. I went with it and gave it my spin.
I used the {Mini Treat Bag Thinlits Dies} to create this bag - super easy to make. Then, to dress it up... that was the tricky part. I'm pleased with what I came up with, seems to be fitting with the trends. I kept with a black and white theme with hints of Tempting Turquoise and Gold. I decided to make my treat bag house a little card - cute eh?!
I also added a poinsettia from the {Reason for the Season} stamp set - stamped with Tempting Turquoise Classic Ink to tie in more turquoise colour.
I used {Hardwood} - the awesome background stamp from the Annual Catalogue to create the background for the antlers. I did sponge it also for a bit more pop.
Here's to the unconventional... I hope you like it, have a super day!!
Stampin' Up! Supplies Used:
Stamps: Wonderland; Reason for the Season; Six Sayings (host)
Papers: Winter Wonderland Specialty Designer Series Paper, Whisper White, Tempting Turquoise & Basic Black Card stock.
Inks: Archival Black Ink; Tempting Turquoise Classic Ink; Versamark
Accessories: Metallic Doilies; Paper Snips; Mini Treat Bag Thinlits Dies; Gold Satin Ribbon; Metallic Gold Thread; Gold Embossing Powder; Heat Tool; Handheld Stapler/Silver Staples; Triple Banner Punch
Thanks for stopping by, happy stamping! Beckie