MCC Holds College Reach-Out Awards Ceremony
(Bradenton, Fla., May 29, 2008) - Graduating seniors from area high schools and other students in Manatee Community College's (MCC) College Reach-Out Program (CROP) were honored May 15 at the 10th Annual CROP Awards Ceremony held at MCC Bradenton.
Dr. Sarah H. Pappas, MCC president, gave welcoming remarks, and students were presented with certificates, gift bags, scholarships and special achievement awards. Former CROP and current MCC students D.J. Anneaud and Glendy Lopez shared their insights and experiences as student speakers. Other participants in the ceremony were Kristen L. Anderson, MCC CROP director; Sheila McCants, MCC counselor; and Edmundo Delgado, CROP multicultural specialist.
CROP, a statewide program funded through a grant from the Florida Department of Education and designed to increase the number of students who successfully complete postsecondary education, is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year. MCC's school-based program assists targeted students by providing motivational and educational activities to keep them on a college-bound track.
CROP students honored as Students of the Year included Austin Cripe (Booker Middle School), Kadeem Scott (Bayshore High School), Gilberto Parada (Booker High School), Mariela Barrogan (Central High School), Markie Muller (Manatee High School), Shannon Mitchell (Palmetto High School), Antonnet Johnson (Riverview High School) and Jenna Louis-Jeune (Southeast High School).
CROP site coordinators include Gary Clark (Booker Middle School), Lem Andrews and Dalila Vasquez-Morales (Booker High School), Yvette Benton and Christine Keusch (Central High School), Matilda Bediako (Manatee High School), Suzette Holness (Palmetto High School), Connie Hubbard (Riverview High School) and Linda Bogue (Southeast High School).
Sixty-one percent of this year's CROP seniors (25 of 41) have been accepted into the 2008 Summer Bridge Program and will receive scholarships ($800) to attend MCC this summer after their high school graduation. CROP graduates who attend MCC are eligible to receive tuition and book scholarships.