Parallel Progression is Tricky
Over the weekend, Gabe got to check out Mines of Moria at PAX, the first expansion to The Lord of the Rings Online. What he's been talking about the most since seeing it is the way that your character's weapons can progress right alongside them, acquiring legendary status in their own right, and hefty stats boosts as a matter of course. In the context of an MMO that's primarily focused on PvE, this is cool; the worst that can happen is that a class/item combination is favored over all others. It gets a little more tricky when you apply this to PvP. Think about how restrictive enchant and gem choices can be when you're suiting a WoW character up for PvP.
Levels in Battlefield Heroes will factor into matchmaking, and determine how many abilities you have access to, as well as how far you've upgraded them. Though I should probably reserve judgment until more of DICE's vision has made its way into the beta, I'm tempted to say that Battlefield Heroes should go no further than this. I suspect that it will be challenging enough to balance without it going one layer deeper -- like allowing character to level up specific weapons, or creating abilities that govern how effective they are with certain vehicles.
I like that the combat is paced like an MMO; the prolonged firefights are long enough at this point to allow for interesting stuff to happen (like sudden reinforcements, or a crucial ability coming out of cooldown) without feeling contrived. Add too much more complexity and you risk making the game feel overwrought, and more difficult to keep sound as a side effect.
Don't Forget: You're a Shooter
When I play shooters, the most I'm asked in terms of premeditation is to choose a weapon loadout. Conversely, when I think about of doing some WoW PvP, I'm on boards reading about talent specs, team compositions, and UI add-ons. EA says that Battlefield Heroes is all about the "casual" experience; I'm having trouble believing that. But if I could jump in and out as "casually" as I do in Team Fortress 2, that's good enough.
My big reservation is that Heroes will require all sorts of forethought; that I'll be thinking about how "viable" and "competitive" certain specs are before I jump in to play. That would certainly keep me from getting earnestly into it.
In its current state of beta, Battlefield Heroes is pretty barebones. This leads me to believe that DICE is having these same dialogues internally, iterating on this spare framework and taking advantage of the game's liberating business model to build it at their own pace.
Let's hope this is the case. I can't be the only one who thinks that Battlefield Heroes is potentially the most important PC game to come out in a long time.