“Serial” may be over until next year, but questions about Adnan Syed’s guilt remain, torturing the podcast’s devotees.
So it’s little wonder that when news broke of key witness Jay Wilds’ first-ever interview on Tuesday, the world once again spiraled into a mass of theories and analysis focusing on that one infuriatingly enduring question: Who really killed Hae Min Lee?
Almost two decades after he first put high school student Adnan Syed behind bars for life, the reluctant Jay has emerged from the safety of silence to offer his side of the story to The Intercept.
In “Serial” — the podcast based on the 15-year-old murder of Hae Min Lee — which is made up almost entirely of suspense, misinformation and circumstantial evidence — Jay has become one of the podcast’s most arresting, and divisive, figures.
Despite being dragged into the spotlight after the podcast’s star narrator and co-producer, Sarah Koenig, decided to ask all the hard questions — most of them relating to Jay — he managed to stay silent until now, refusing all interviews and denying Koenig a recording for “Serial.”
In Part 1 of the two-part interview, Jay — who believes he was treated unfairly by Koenig — told The Intercept that the podcast “painted a highly misleading portrayal of him and his role” in the case, despite admitting, on record, that he lied to police and to the court during Adnan’s trial.
Whether a calculated tactic to tug on the heartstrings or simply the truth, Jay consistently brings up his family — especially his grandmother — as the reason why he lied during the case.
When asked why he helped Adnan bury Hae’s body, he says: “Because at the time I was convinced that I would be going to jail for a long time if he turned me in for drug dealing, especially to high school kids.”
“I was also running [drug] operations from my grandmother’s house. So that would ruin her life, too.”
He also uses his grandmother as justification for lying to the police about where and when he first saw Hae’s body. During the trial, Jay said Adnan showed him Hae’s body — in the trunk of Hae’s car — outside Cathy’s house.
(For those confused, “Cathy” — not her real name — is Jay’s friend, and the person Jay claims he and Adnan spent time with after Jay picked up Adnan from the murder scene, and before he helped him bury Hae’s body. It’s all a bit muddy.)
“I saw her body later, in front of my grandmother’s house where I was living. I didn’t tell the cops it was in front of my house because I didn’t want to involve my grandmother.”
In the interview, Jay says Adnan “manipulated him into what was being done” by saying: “You’ve gotta help me, or I’m gonna tell the cops about you and the weed and all that s–t.”
Jay admits he was unwilling to cooperate with police until they “made it clear they weren’t interested in my ‘procurement’ of pot.”
He also says police had to “chase” him around before finally cornering him, at which point he still refused to answer their questions — “I wasn’t fully cooperating, so if they said, ‘Well, we have you on phone records that you talked to Jenn,’ I’d say, ‘Nope, I didn’t talk to Jenn’” — until Jenn told him she talked to the police, and advised him to do the same. (Jenn is Jay’s friend, whose house he claims to have been at when Adnan called him from a landline outside Best Buy, asking to be picked up after strangling Hae.)
In the podcast, Koenig spends much of the time contemplating Adnan’s motive for murdering his ex-girlfriend, with whom he says he was on friendly terms.
She often muses that his personality and actions did not match the level of devastation he was described as having felt when Hae left him.
To Jay, however, Adnan looked “real hurt and [in] pain” following the breakup.
“I think that was his first real girlfriend, and I think that’s why his reaction was so strong. I don’t think it meant that much to her … [but] he seemed to be far out of his realm when it came to Hae leaving him.”
“And the other thing about it, I mean, there looked like there was real hurt and pain. What else could motivate you to choke the life out of someone you cared about?” Jay says during the interview.
Listeners and redditors have already begun discussing the explosive interview, with many agreeing that although Jay came off “incredibly well, very genuine and believable … I know loads of this can’t be true.”
User afwaller also points out that Jay admits lying to the police and to the court, and tries to “justify these continued lies with some shaky reasoning.”
“He admits he lied, and the story he told in court wasn’t true … Lying with no real motivation, ego and pride thrusting you to disparage other people and make up stories, that’s borderline personality behavior there. Maybe. Jay should stay silent. But he won’t.”
The Twittersphere is also awash in doubt, with many calling Jay a liar:
Others, however, are less skeptical, and think that Jay’s confessions only implicate Adnan:
As for the truth? The fact is, probably no one will know the whole truth about what happened that night.
In the final episode of “Serial,” Koenig herself admitted that, despite liking Adnan, she would “not swear that he was innocent.”