Burnished Neutrals: Coppers and Browns
Burnished Neutrals: Coppers and Browns
I gotta tell you, this look was a pain in the behind to photograph. You just can’t see as much color variation in the close-up photos as you typically can. I took photos in a different spot in my house than I normally do (on the floor, ha), so I won’t be doing that again in case that alone was it! (I, as silly as I can be, removed my makeup prior to uploading photos to ensure everything was photographed right and tight!) At least, though, the full face photos turned out and show the look the way it should 🙂
Happy Friday! What are your Friday plans? The boyfriend and I are celebrating Valentine’s Day early (we always do it early!) at my very favorite steakhouse. I’m already salivating over what’s to come, LOL!
You will need the following…
- Eyes: Urban Decay Primer Potion (eyeshadow base), Urban Decay Drink Me, Eat Me (Sin) Eyeshadow (champagne pink), Urban Decay Muchness (X) Eyeshadow (melon), Urban Decay Queen (Last Call) Eyeshadow (burgundy), Urban Decay Mushroom Eyeshadow (taupe brown), MAC Shroom Eyeshadow (neutral highlighter), Urban Decay 1999 24/7 Liner (dark red-purple), Urban Decay Honey 24/7 Liner (gold), MAC Plushlash Mascara (black)
- Face: Korres Tinted Moisturizer (Honey)
- Cheeks: Dolce & Gabbana Peach Blush (soft beige-pink)
- Lips: Guerlain Orange Sequin (#342) KissKiss Strass Lipstick (coral-brown), Le Metier de Beaute Papaya Creme Lipgloss (sheer gold)
- Brushes: 226 (fluffy crease brush), 249 (flat, firm brush), 239 (fluffy shadow brush), 116 (dense blush brush)
- Substitutes: N/A
For eyes, start by applying Primer Potion as your eyeshadow base all over the eye area with the 249. Using the 239, apply Drink Me, Eat Me eyeshadow on the inner third of the eyelid. Next, apply Muchness eyeshadow on the middle third of the eyelid and lightly blend with the inner corner. Darken the outer third of the lid with Queen eyeshadow with the 239, gently brushing it into the lower crease. Add more depth to the crease by applying Mushroom eyeshadow with the 226. Lightly blend Mushroom eyeshadow, with the 239, on the outer corner and lid. Lightly tap and brush Muchness eyeshadow directly above the crease to soften. To finish the eyeshadow look, sweep Shroom eyeshadow as a highlighter on the brow bone. Bring everything together by applying 1999 eyeliner on the lower lash line and Honey liner on the lower water line. Finish by sweeping lashes with Plushlash mascara.
For cheeks, apply Peach blush to the apples of the cheeks and sweep upwards towards the temple with the 116.
For lips, apply Orange Sequin lipstick first, and then layer Papaya Creme lipgloss for a complementing lip.
> 🙂! 🙂
Glad you gave it a try & liked it!
I really love this look, Christine! Thanks for doing this – You’re making me wanna buy the UD AiW pallette! UD should pay you for these looks! 😉 Oh, and OMG, the KissKiss strass lipsticks you used for this look and the antique gold look is really catching my eye – are those from the Spring collection? You’re such a bad influence, hee hee….
Hey Toni!
Thanks so much! 🙂! 🙂! 🙂
Love, love Papaya Creme. I am so glad I convinced myself to order it online (they didn’t have that one when I was in-store)… so pretty.
Oh, I just love this! You’re always so stunning, Christine ^^
Thank you, Rae 🙂
Urban Decay shadows are a pain to photograph because they reflect so much light! The shimmer just never focuses for me. but great look! =)
LOL! That might be it.
Thank you 🙂
This look makes you appear super healthy and pretty! I must have that lip combo!
I miss my makeup, nasty cold + pink eye for both my son and I.
Aw, thank you so much, Jenni!! 🙂
I hope you & your son are better soon! Cold AND pink eye is most definitely not fun!
You look awesome!
And your hair is fabulous as usual 🙂
Thanks, Sara 😉! 🙂 🙂
Wow, you look so beautifull! I really like this look.
Thanks, G!
Gorgeous! I have a similar look on today… similar eyes anyway. Switch up the lips with New York Apple lipstick and that’s me! 😛 Great minds think alike.
Awesome! Ohh, very sultry with the New York Apple!
This is an absolutely beautifully coordinated look! I love it! The blush is so absolutely beautiful on you too – it’s the perfect lit from within glow!
Thank you, Catherine!! 🙂
I think neutral colors look best on you! This is beautiful 🙂
Aw, thanks, Rachael!
Another beautiful look and my favorite gold liner underneath haha! I think the last picture captured it REALLY well.
Thank you so much, Nancy!! 🙂 Thank goodness it did – I was like, OK, it’s not a loss, the full face photos show it!
so pretty!!! those colors look great on you!!!
Thank you, Luisafer!
love this look 🙂 🙂! 🙂! 🙂 🙂 Hope you are doing well!
you look gorgeous here!
Thanks, Annie!