So literally since the new Muse song Madness has come out I repeat it non stop. It’s like a drug. I’m in love with it! Give it a listen?
There are so many new releases out! My linden balance and I are in trouble! I wish I could blog all day to catch up, actually I might blog a few times today! First off starting with some Truth, Auxiliary and ColdLogic releases!
Love this little ‘poof’ hair from Truth called Carmen, shown here in my favorite color Swedish. Carmen is a rigged mesh hair which shows a tasseled about look! This style reminds me of how I wear my hair in real life! ColdLogic has a TON of new releases out but my favorite is this shirt called Waid shown here in ebony! It’s another rigged mesh which is cut a little higher. It can be paired with a tank top or left with jeans to create a cute casual sexy look!
Auxiliary has been blowing my mind lately with their releases! These Skinny Jeans are exclusive this month to FaMESHed and I’m head over heels! There’s so many different washes to cose from, they are shown here in Ink! These jeans are rigged mesh as well and textured to perfection!
A new to me store called Flightless will be, I believe, debuting at the new gacha festival called ‘The Arcade’. This necklace will be available called Deer Bead Necklace, shown here in the rare prize pearl! It’s mesh and beautiful and I’m in love! I look forward to new releases from them!
Speaking of The Arcade I’m SO excited for this event to start! They just released an awesome teaser video, which you should totally watch here! The event opens up September 15th, are you ready to try your luck at gacha?
STYLING;
SKIN; the body co. Ivy (02 Ivory) brown brows
EYES; Insufferable Dastard .ID. Mirror / Mesh Eyes / Green
HAIR; >TRUTH< Carmen w/Roots - swedish NEW
NAILS; [croire] ombre nails (orchard)
FACIAL PIERCINGS; [-iPoke-] Classics
HIP PIERCINGS; [SiCK] – Piercings – Solid Grip *Edited*
SHIRT; coldLogic top – waid.ebony (XS) NEW
NECKLACE; Flightless – Deer bead necklace (pearl) rare Coming Soon to The Arcade
JEANS; Auxiliary – Skinny Jeans – XXS- Ink NEW to FaMESHed
BELT; Maitreya Coin Belt Black (Pelvis)
BOOTs; [N] calf high moccasins – black (Not currently available! Sorry guys!)
POSE; Marukin
Recent Comments