., perseveres in Advanced Technology and High Quality to serve customers from all over the world. With a team of experienced and well-trained staff, we could ensure the quality of every pneumatic fittings and air tubing. We still insist on the principle of “To be a Reliable Manufacturer, Responsible for Customers” to provide excellent pneumatic products but with competitive prices. Pace is expecting to working with you in future.
Pneumatic Fittings
Pneumatic Fittings, Air Fittings, Push-In Fittings with BSPT or NPT ThreadPlastic push in fittings (pneumatic fittings, one touch tube fittings) are tapered thread, and there is special thread sealants on thread. Accept metric and inch tube, and BSPT (R), NPT thread. Working pressure range: 0~1.0Mpa (0~150psi), Working temp. range: 0~60ºC (32~140ºF).
Pneumatic Fittings, Air Fittings, Push-In Fittings with BSPP Thread (O-Ring)Pneumatic push in fittings with O-ring (BSPP thread one touch tube fittings) are parallel thread, so there is O-ring on the thread, by which sealing is very well, it's suitable for G and BSPP thread. Working pressure range: 0~1.0Mpa (0~150psi), Working temp. range: 0~60ºC (32~140ºF).
Compact One Touch Tube Fittings, Miniature Pneumatic Fittingscompact one touch fittings is 40% less and the outside diameter is 20% less than the standard type tube fittings. Working pressure range: 0~1.0Mpa (0~150psi), Working temp. range: 0~60ºC (32~140ºF).
Pneumatic Speed Controller Valve, Pneumatic Flow Controller ValvePneumatic speed controllers (flow controller) can regulate air flow to control the operational speed of pneumatic actuators. Accept metric and inch tube, and BSPT(R), BSPP(G), NPT thread.
Pneumatic Hand Valve, Air Hand ValvePneumatic hand valve can close or open airflow, when it closed, discharges the residual pressure from the output (device) side, there are tube to tube, thread (BSPT, BSPP, NPT thread) to thread and tube to thread etc. various type
Nickel Plated Brass Air Fitting with BSPT or NPT ThreadThe exterior structure of All nickel plated brass push in fittings with BSPT or NPT thread are all brass, they are more solid and more ageing resistance than plastic push in fitting, there is NBR sealing and stainless steel pliers inside.
Nickel Plated Brass Air Fittings with BSPP Thread (O-Ring)All nickel plated brass push in fittings with BSPP thread have O-rings on their thread, parallel thread with O-ring to seal, Working pressure range: 0~1.0Mpa (0~150psi), Working temp. range: 0~70ºC (32~158ºF). Metric and Inch tube
All Metal Air Fittings (Camozzi Type)Camozzi type all metal push in fittints have different interior structure with common type brass push in fittings, sealing by o-ring not NBR, the lock claw and tube sleeve is on one body, Working pressure range: 0~1.6Mpa (0~230psi), Working temp. range: -20~120ºC (-4~248°F). BSPT(R), BSPP(G), NPT thread, Metric and Inch tube.
Push Connect Air Brake Fittings (DOT Type)Push Connect Air Brake Fitting (DOT Type) Ideal for use in transportation, instrumentation markets and pneumatic accessories, there is viton sealing inside, so it could work under high temp., Inch tube and NPT thread.
Stainless Steel Push-In Fittings (SS 316L, Viton O-ring Seal)stainless steel pneumatic push-to-connect fittings are made with 316 stainless steel bodies and 303 stainless steel gripping collets with internal Viton o-ring. Threaded components are 316 stainless steel.
Brass Air Fittings
Nickel Plated Brass Air ConnectorsBrass Air Connector with Nickel Plated (pneumatic brass fittings) are used in air, water, and other fluid field, the material is brass with nickel plated, accept custom made for specail size. There is BSPP(G), BSPT(R), and NPT thread.
Compression FittingsCompression fittings are used to connect two pipes. They are composed of three pieces: a body, nut, and gasket ring (or ferule). They use pressure to tighten connections, which prevents leakage.
Rapid Fitting for Plastic Tube, All Metal Two-Touch FittingsRapid Fittings for Plastic Tube ( All metal two-touch fittings) are Lock-nut mechanism provides a semi-permanent pneumatic connection. Resistant against vibration and suitable for multi-directional tubing movements. BSPT, NPT thread.
Muffler and Air Tubing
Sintering Silencer / Pneumatic MufflerAs air passes through the pneumatic silencer ( Muffler), the dense felt element absorbs the noise, thus reducing high pitch exhaust noise to a gentle, low frequency sound. Material: Plastic, Brass.
Air TubingInch and metric tubing sizes available, there is Straight Polyurethane pneumatic tubing, Coiled Polyurethane Tubing, Straight Nylon 6 Tubing and Straight Nylon 12 Tubing, accept within or without quick coupler and air connector.
All Metal Push In Fittings
Keywords of Our Products :
Pneumatic fittings, Air fittings, Push in fittings, One touch tube fittings, hose fittings, One touch fittings, Quick connecting tube fittings, Compact one touch fittings, Composite Pneumatic Fittings, Pneumatic Connectors. Pneumatic push in fittings, All metal push in fittings, Nickel plated brass push in fittings, Full nickel plated brass pneumatic push-in fittings, compression fittings, Push connect air brake fittings, Rapid fittings for plastic tubing, two touch fittings, Air connectors, brass fittings, Air tubing, PU tubing, Nylon tubing, Pneumatic tubing, Flow Speed Controllers and Hand Valve, Air hose, Pneumatic silencer, muffler, Pneumatic accessories, components, element