:
Actually, those juices look really delicious. Also, YES you do need that Foccacia bread, just in moderation! Cheers to healthy pursuits.
Hey Shelly, haven’t heard from you for a long time! Where have you been? Gee, these cooling & healthy drinks sound perfecr for me. Hope you’re having a wonderful day.
Blessings, Kristy
You talked me into it. I’ll pick up my 3 day cleanse on Friday morning.
I’m on Day 1 of the Raw Cooler Cleanse today. So far it’s ok, but I’ve also done Blueprint twice before!
I really want to try this, going by your review I am more willing to try it, I am a little freaked out by the GREEN MONSTER! LOL That is the only one I think I will have an issue with! I hope I can get it delivered to my area, I just have to set a date and do it, I have been eating alot healther, more fruits, veggies, mostly water and tea and smoothies to drink so hoping this helps with the cleanse.
Anyone else feel these Juices cleanses are really helping you as far as energy and your skin? I have issue with both, I am not overweight fortunatley so thats not an issue but I am always tired and I have mild acne since i was 14!
Hi Kari!
I really think it definitely helped my skin. I too suffer from mild acne and have always had to use salicylic or benzyl peroxide to keep it at bay, but I really noticed in the weeks after the cleanse ( even now) that my skin operates much better. Even in the hot NYC humidity, I haven’t had a breakout since the cleanse (of course, now that I just typed it I hope I don’t wake up to a breakout!)
Hope this works out well to you. Please let me know how you like it!
I am on day two of a five day cleanse, and I have so much energy. Here’s my take on the juices….the Green Monster is great to me. I love the hint of cucumber. All of the fruit juices such as pineapple and grapefruit mint are fabulous. The almond milk is better than the brazil nut milk. However, I could not drink the red essential or the coconut juices. I guess you can see that you have to try them for yourself because my taste buds are totally different from the reviewer. I will definitely order the custom cleanse in the future because of the customer service. They let me choose a different juice for my second shipment because I could not drink some of the juices. They have a lifetime customer!
Attractive component of content. I just stumbled upon your weblog
and in accession capital to assert that I get in fact enjoyed account your
blog posts. Anyway I’ll be subscribing to your feeds or even I achievement you get entry to persistently quickly.
If some one needs to be updated with latest technologies afterward he must be pay a visit this website and be up to date all
the time.
Thanks for ones marvelous posting! I genuinely enjoyed reading it, you
might be a great author.I will make certain to bookmark your blog and will
often come back very soon. I want to encourage
yourself to continue your great work, have a nice evening!
This is my first time go to see at here and i am in fact pleassant!
It is appropriate time tto make skme plans for the future and it’s
time to be happy. I’ve read this post and if I could I want to
suggest you some interesting things or suggestions. Perhaps you can write next
articles referrihg to this article. I desire to read even more thungs abouut it!
This is certainly really
decent… Many thanks as well as sustain the very good labor
of love!