Letters to the Editor 07-17-14
RESHAPING AMERICA
In 1966, two sociology professors, Richard Cloward and Francis Piven, outlined a plan calling for the overloading of America’s welfare system to precipitate a crisis that would perpetuate a new social scheme of guaranteed minimum income.
The “Cloward Piven Strategy” is still alive and well today and at work at our southern border.
With border patrol ordered to stand down, the floodgates have been opened and the mass influx of illegals will surely be utilized as an additional cog wheel for the strategy. It also goes without saying that the “border crisis” will eventually serve as extra fuel in the drive toward open borders and the advancement of the U.S. into a North American Union.
While visiting Brownsville, Texas, Nancy Pelosi stated that “this is a community with a border going through it” and that “what others are calling a crisis should be viewed as an opportunity.” But an opportunity for what or whom, exactly? Further integration, more spending, the propping up of a voter class that is subservient to the welfare state?
Huge problems should be foreseen when someone like David Petraeus (former CIA head and U.S. military commander) says “after America, there is North America.”
It seems as though an insidious agenda is unfolding as Obama reshapes America. People who are supporting amnesty and calling for open borders are ultimately supporting the end of America. What is a country without its borders? How much money can be spent on what number of people until we finally collapse into a third-world cesspit not unlike those from which the so-called “migrants/refugees” are trying to escape?
Speaking of which, Guatemala’s first lady, Rosa Leal de Perez, is on record stating that violence isn’t the reason kids are heading north, but rather kids are primarily traveling to the U.S. in order to reunite with family.
There is more than just a humanitarian crisis going on at the border. America better wake up before there is no longer an America left to wake up in!
Scott Klingler Jr.
Findlay
EXCUSING THE INEXCUSABLE
It seems to me if corporations continue to be granted rights similar to those of the individual, they should also be subject to the laws and penalties regarding individuals.
If a corporation like Citigroup defrauds consumers, robbing millions of people of billions of dollars in life savings, someone should be brought up on charges of felony theft, complete with hefty prison sentences, rather than fines and/or penalties.
If “corporations are people, too,” then why do the rights of some (corporations) outweigh the rights of others (employees, consumers)?
If Hobby Lobby was owned by a Jehovah’s Witness, would it be able to deny its employees insurance coverage for blood transfusions, as it is now legally allowed to deny coverage of certain forms of birth control, claiming religious freedom?
Corporations are not people, they are institutions steered by groups of individuals who sometimes excuse inexcusable, immoral, and unethical behavior on the basis of a finely-tuned mob mentality.
If all are to blame, none is held accountable. We, or a majority of us, like to call ourselves a Christian nation, but our actions belie that notion.
God is not our chief deity, Mammon is.
Elizabeth Check
Findlay
FINDLAY HAS TOO MANY EYESORES
Having moved from Findlay earlier this year, I had the opportunity to visit family and friends there a couple weeks ago. I was amazed at the “new happenings” that are taking place, like Marathon’s “little city” being built, among others.
What really was disheartening, if there is such a word, is that abandoned properties along U.S. 224 and Ohio 12, better known as Tiffin Avenue, have grass that is growing tall and the properties themselves are really an eyesore.
Some of these have real estate agent signs in the yard and some are probably in a banks’ hands. Those in charge of those properties should be responsible enough to keep the grass trimmed and the property presentable even for those who drive by.
This not only happens in that area but also in areas all over the city. I went back into the neighborhood (Dayton Avenue) where I grew up and was sickened by a property that has been vacant for a long time and is decaying slowly. The owner has thrown tarps over the dilapidated roof, and the property itself is deplorable.
Property values of the homes around it would probably be lessened due to the condition of this property. Why has this been allowed to happen?
I love the city but let’s not allow properties, whether Realtor-owned or bank-owned, to put a bad taste in our mouths.
Theresa Huntoon
Byesville
BOARD SHOULD ABIDE BY RULING
I just read the update (Page A3, July 16) regarding Liberty-Benton school board voting to appeal the judge’s ruling in the Mark Badertscher firing case.
It’s time for the school board to stop throwing my tax money down this rathole. They should have listened to the arbitrator’s ruling.
I was going to vote in favor of the levy to build a new school, but because of this poor example of financial stewardship, I will be voting no and I urge everyone in Liberty-Benton School District to do the same.
I guess we’ll have to vote these clowns out at the next election.
Kim Grove
Findlay