For discussion of any and all Gundam series.
Sticky Threads
The Gundam franchise is big, there's no denying that. The whole freaking franchise is very overwhelming. I mean it spawned 11 TV shows, several OVAs, theatrical films and specials. I'm not even counting the countless sidestory mangas, video games and novels that gets released mostly every month...
Alright, here you can continue discussing the Gundam series. =) Have fun and play nice, kiddies. I don't want to come with the rolled up newspaper and swat you across your head every time you don't behave. <33
~ Soph
All discussion about the Gundam series goes here. :D Please leave it as that. Maybe we won't have a billion thread floating around. ^_^
Normal Threads
Thought I'd ask the AF Gundam crowd this; if you were a Gundam pilot (from any era in the metaseries), what kind of weapons and abilites would your Mobile Suit have?
Simply discuss your favorite female characters from any Gundam series.
What Gundam series is your favorite? I bet that most will say, Gundam Wing, as I will, but I have to say that Gundam SEED comes in a close second.
This is quite possibly my favorite anime. How much do you guys like it?
...were should I start?
Random idea, but whatever. So AF, what would you do?
What's everyone's thoughts on the live action G Savior? I know it's probably blasphemy, but it's the only Gundam thing I've ever seen, except for part of a random episode of Gundam Wing. I've been interested in watching the series from the beginning.
List your 3 favorite mobile suits here. Use template lolol
Name: ZGMF-X19A Infinity Justice
Pilot(s): Lacus Clyne(for a brief 10 minutes), and Athrun Zala
Description: One of the ultimate nuclear powered Gundam Mobile Suits in Gundam Seed Destiny. It is an upgrade model of the Justice, which...
I think that the saddest part of the series was when Nicol died. I felt so sorry for him and his piano music makes me want to cry even more. :'(
Does anyone else think that too.
Nicol's Piano:
Anyone...
Ok.. i believe this quote im trying to find is in the Endless Waltz version of Gundam Wing that played in the USA. It happend (i think) durring a fight between Zero and Epsilon. It was something Relena (or one of the other female characters) said.
Unless im completely mixing things up it was...
So what got you hooked onto the series/genera?
Gundam Wing was my first exposure to anything Gundam related. I want to say I was in eighth grade when I saw Optimus Prime hype up the series. Around episode 10 is where I would say I was hooked.....I think that is the episode were Heero Yuy does...
classic gundam
all of first gundam series here...
i have been watching gundam since i was small and ive been buying them up as i go. so far my last gundam is Gundam 00. i started watching unicorn and i must say the character animation is different from the animator of seed an 00. seems closer to that of the original mobile suit gundam.
anyway...
For me it would probably be Relena, Hilde, or Noin. If you don't know who Hilde is, she's this chick who looks similar to Noin.
Episode 4 titled "At The Bottom Of The Gravity Well" will be released on November 12, 2011 for the PSN. The DVD and BD release will be on December 2.
Synopsis:
Characters and mecha that will appear in the episode:
Is there any Gundam mobile suit that can seat two people? Or has it only been one person, which is the pilot?
i think i'm most like setsuna f. seiei from gundam 00 because i dont show my emotions often but when i do i am a force to be reckoned with:)
G....
For,...
been reading this on Wiki and other sites, so far there hasn't been a release date set in the US, but it was licensed back in august of last year
And so I finally watched the movie...
My thoughts?
The movie was pretty meh... I was really expecting something here but I was really disappointed.
Bad stuff
More info here.,.........
I'm definitely getting the DVD. Turn A Gundam is my fave Gundam series of all time.
Another...
I got some big news here.
Yoshikazu Yasuhiko's Gundam the Origin manga will be getting an anime adaptation. For...
So by now pretty much everyone has heard of the new "Gundam AGE" project. Whether it'll be a success or not is still pretty much up in the air and has a lot of fans, myself included, a bit skeptical.
However, in a most unexpected turn of events, it would appear that yet another new Gundam...
This coming June 13, Bandai and Sunrise will have a live press conference to announce a new Gundam series. Also, some people from the Gundam 00 are involved in this new project. I'm betting it's another AU series. Anyway, I will post more as this gets