Kathy Johnson
The South Shore Breaker
It was a demonstration she had seen during Fire Prevention Week as an elementary school student that initially sparked Amber Barkhouse’s interest in becoming a volunteer firefighter with the Cornwall and District Fire Department in Lunenburg County.
“The chief who was there for a very long time, Johnny Yates, he put on Fire Prevention Week (activities) for years and he always made it interesting for kids and the first time I decided I wanted to be part of the fire department was when he brought his smoke machine in and put us in a small room and showed us how to be down low below the smoke if we were ever in a fire,” said Barkhouse in an interview.
Barkhouse comes from a family of volunteer firefighters. Her father has been a member of the Cornwall and District Fire Department for some 26 years and his two uncles were founding members of the department.
At 16, she officially joined the ranks and has since completed her medical first responders training and while she can’t enter burning buildings until she completes her level one fire training, Barkhouse “helps out the best I can” on fire calls.
Now 18 and graduated from Parkview Education Centre, Barkhouse has been recognized for her dedication to the fire service and the community. On Aug. 5, she was presented with the Canadian Volunteer Fire Service Association (CVFSA) Don McKee and Jim Hayter Memorial Scholarships. It was the first time both scholarships were presented to the same recipient.
“We’re pretty proud of her,” said retired fire chief Steve Patterson.
Barkhouse intends to pursue a career in enforcement as a fisheries officer. This fall she will be taking the Nova Scotia Community College (NSCC) fisheries program at the Shelburne Campus and after graduating there, plans to take a two-year wildlife conservation program at Holland College in P.E.I, and then she'll be off to Saskatchewan for her policing program.
Barkhouse has been working at the Northfield Poultry processing plant for the summer. In her free time, Barkhouse says she likes to go fishing, four wheeling and horseback riding.
“I’ve been riding since I was six,” she said. “I still ride at least once a week whenever I can get over to the barn (Red Pine Stables). It’s one of my free time resets.”
She also farms and grows meat birds.
“I like to be outside.”
Barkhouse was also involved in competitive Olympic style wrestling while in high school until COVID-19 hit. She holds the Nova Scotia Schools Athletic Federation (NSSAF) 2020 Senior Wrestling Championship title for 90kg.
Barkhouse was supposed to compete in the North American Indigenous Games this summer in Halifax, which was cancelled due to the pandemic. Where wrestling is a “close and personal” contact sport, when it makes a comeback remains to be seen, said Barkhouse.
Barkhouse recently took part in a question and answer session:
Q. What is your full name?
A. Amber Willow Barkhouse
Q. Where and when were you born?
A. I was born July 23, 2002, in Bridgewater.
Q. Where do you live today?
A. Cornwall.
Q. What’s your favourite place in the world?
A. Outdoors.
Q. Who do you follow on social media?
A. I follow a lot of fire fighters and Olympic wrestlers.
Q. What’s been your favourite year and why?
A. 2011, the year we started a wrestling team at my elementary school.
Q. Can you describe one experience that changed your life?
A. Last summer I went to Camp Courage, which is a fire, policing and paramedic camp, and it opened my eyes to all the different types of policing and different programs I can take and a lot of different mentors I can reach out to if I ever need help with school and applying for stuff.
Q. What’s your greatest indulgence?
A. Eating ice cream.
Q. What is your favourite movie or book?
A. My favorite movie is Smokey and the Bandit.
Q. How do you like to relax?
A. Going somewhere quiet and sitting with my dog Gypsy.
Q. What are you reading or watching right now?
A. I’m reading Monty Robert’s horse training book
Q. What is your greatest fear?
A. I don’t really have any fears.
Q. How would you describe your personal fashion statement?
A. A pair of jeans and a t-shirt.
Q. What is your most treasured possession?
A. My dog. She’s my everything.
Q. What physical or personality trait are you most grateful to a parent for?
A. Being kind to everyone, even if you are having a bad day, be kind over and above everything.
Q. What is your best quality, and what is your worst quality?
A. My worst quality is I can never say no and my best quality is I will always help out someone in need.