This 76-page glossy magazine is only issued to members of the RAF Memorial Flight Club, and starts with messages from the outgoing and the incoming Officers Commanding of the BBMF, Sqn Ldrs Dunc Mason and Andy ‘Milli’ Millikin.
There’s an article about Hurricane LF363 and the plane it currently honours, Arthur Clowes’ mount P3395 (JX-B), and the Dornier Do-215B that Arthur countered.
A BBMF guide tells the story of an elderly visitor, and why he got special permission to touch Spitfire P7350.
Flt Lt Antony ‘Parky’ Parkinson MBE gives his personal account of the tribute flights made for the 75th anniversary of the Battle of Britain and his participation in them, including the ‘Tiff/Spit Synchro’ displays.
Castle Bromwich and the ups and downs of Spitfire production are recounted alongside a number of evocative photos (you can almost smell the oil), and the memories of a young lady who worked there.
Lancaster PA474 is up next, with the wry tale of her ‘flight to survival’.
Tangmere’s former gate guardian Spitfire LF.XVIe TE311 was nearly sold off in 2000. Dedication has ensured that this aircraft remains with the BBMF, and ‘Parky’ tells how he loves to fly her.
Battlefield Casualty Evacuation is compared between WWII and now, with contrasts between the equipment and supplies available, similarities of the job itself and of the bravery of the mainly female paramedics, at high risk of PTSD due to the stresses involved.
The lesser-known story of the Hurricane Night Fighters is told next, which by rights should have been a disastrous one due to lack of equipment, but thanks to individual endeavour had some success.
After photos of some of the BBMF’s 2015 displays, the magazine ends with an explanation of the ‘MOT’ system for the airworthiness of RAF aircraft.
For those with an interest in the WWII history of the RAF, the men and women who served in various capacities and the aircraft that the RAF flew, this publication will interest you.
Membership Information
The RAF Memorial Flight Club is the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight’s official club. It costs £25 (plus postage) to join and you can be based anywhere in the world – not just in the UK.
Profits from the club help to support the Battle of Britain Memorial Flight’s incredible work, maintaining a living memorial to the aircrews of the Second World War.
As well as the Autumn Journal, club members receive the following:
Membership pack – containing a pin badge, car sticker, pen, poster and information about the BBMF’s aircraft
Monthly prize draw entry – members are automatically entered into a monthly ballot to win exclusive prizes
Free aircraft hangar tour – at the BBMF Visitor Centre, RAF Coningsby (usually £7)
BBMF yearbook – sent out at the beginning of the display season
You can join the club online at