Boeing - St. Louis Electrical Engineering is seeking college graduates to staff existing and emerging programs. Assignments are available in the areas of avionics/electronics/electromagnetics design; hardware/software subsystems analysis and development; and system integration & test for a variety of new capabilities for military aircraft and missile systems. Responsibilities include assisting with the developing / analyzing electronic and electrical system requirements, developing and/or modifying basic hardware and software designs, coordinating with suppliers and customers, performing system requirements verification testing, resolving product integration issues and production anomalies and researching basic technologies for potential application to company business needs.
Experience with RF, firmware, FPGAs, antennas, electro-magnetics/electro-magnetic compatibility is desirable but not required. Experience working in a lab environment (e.g. HW/SW interfaces/integration, creating/conducting configuration testing, troubleshooting, proficiency using general lab equipment such as oscilloscopes, meters and analyzers) is highly desirable, but not required. Experience with radar or electronic warfare or communications (e.g. radios) or avionics (aircraft electronics) is also a plus.
Applicants must have good communication, analytical, and organizational skills and be able to work in a team environment - previous design team or special project team participation is:
Bachelor, Master or Doctorate of Science degree from an accredited course of study, in engineering, computer science, mathematics, physics or chemistry. ABET is the preferred, although not required, accreditation standard.
Applicants should list their current cumulative GPA clearly on their resume. Prefer a 3.0 or greater cumulative grade point average on a 4.0 scale. Prefer degrees in Electrical Engineering and/or Computer Engineering with relevant electrical engineering experience or coursework.
At least 2 semesters/quarters of college level Physics and Mathematics coursework including both Calculus and Differential Equations is required.
This position requires an active (or ability to obtain) U.S. Security Clearance, for which the US Government requires US Citizenship.
Employer will not sponsor applicants for employment visa status.