Orange County Fire Authority Capt. Eric Weuve jumped from an overpass on to a busy freeway and died in an apparent suicide, authorities said. Weuve, a 41-year-old father of two, leapt on to Interstate 5 on Tuesday, said Larry Kurtz, who is also a captain. (Orange County Fire Authority via AP)
Flags at OCFA stations and station 64 in Westminster fly at half-staff in honor of Fire Capt. Eric Weuve, 41, an 11-year veteran from Orange who jumped off the Crown Valley Parkway I-5 overpass on Tuesday morning and was killed by a big-rig. (Photo by Ken Steinhardt, Orange County Register/SCNG)
MISSION VIEJO – A 41-year-old man, a fire captain from Orange, jumped off the Crown Valley Parkway I-5 overpass on Tuesday morning and was killed by a big-rig, officials said.
The CHP got a call of a man scaling a the chain-link fence on the overpass about 11 a.m. Minutes later, he jumped and was hit.
The Orange County Fire Authority identified the man as Capt. Eric Weuve, an 11-year veteran who was based out of Fire Station 64 in Westminster.
“Weuve was a well-respected member of the Orange County Fire Authority, a wonderful father and will be missed not only in the OCFA community, but the community at large,” OCFA Capt. Larry Kurtz said. “The word tragedy just doesn’t do the situation justice.”
Kurtz says county firefighters saw a pickup truck with fire gear in it atop the overpass, and were stunned when they got down to the freeway and learned it was Weuve. He said OCFA chaplains were sent out and its Critical Incident Stress Debriefing Team was at the scene for support.
Kurtz said Weuve was a married father of a 14-year-old boy and a 5-year-old girl.
The incident halted freeway traffic in both directions between Oso and Avery parkways. The lanes were reopened at 12:10 p.m., Kurtz said.
County Supervisor Todd Spitzer adjourned Tuesday’s board meeting in Weuve’s honor.
“Incidents like this serve as a reminder the holidays are a very tough time for a lot of people, so just hope everybody spends a great time with their family and remind yourself and your family just how important and precious life is,” Spitzer said.
City News Service and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Contact the writer: npercy@scng.com