Melbourne, Australia, April 3, 2013 (Washington Bangla Radio): An annual celebration of Indian cinema in all its forms for over the last 7 years – The Indian Film Festival of Melbourne, hosted by Mind Blowing Films under the guidance of Festival Director Mitu Bhowmick-Lange, takes its show on the road with films from Hindi blockbusters to regional and art-house along with award-winning film makers and the biggest stars of Indian cinema as special guests.
For the second year, National award winner Vidya Balan returns to Melbourne as the festival’s ambassador. It commences on 3rd of May, marking exactly a 100 years of Indian Cinema.
The 2013 festival will celebrate 100 years of Indian cinema and will showcase and provide audiences some of the most celebrated films of the last century including the very first Indian film Raja Harishchandra (1913), closing with the Australian premiere of The Reluctant Fundamentalist (2012).
Says Louise Asher, Minister for Innovation, Services and Small Business, who was present to launch the festival “The Indian Film Festival of Melbourne is a wonderful demonstration of our growing cultural links and shows the creativity and innovation that Melbourne and Mumbai are both famous for,”Adding that , “The Victorian Government is committed to strengthening Victoria’s association with India as well as developing mutual understanding of our respective screen industries”.
In addition to screening a diverse array of films from India, the festival will also showcase a number of films from the sub-continent.The festival will host prominent Indian filmmakers and screen professionals and also provide an interactive program of master classes.
Among the guests of the 2013 festival will be Mrs Pamela Chopra, visiting Melbourne to accept a lifetime achievement award for the late Mr Yash Chopra. The award will acknowledge his contribution to film and his special relationship with Victoria. The festival will pay rich tribute to the legendary filmmaker, including screening his final film Jab Tak Hai Jaan.
Says Ms. Mitu Bhowmick-Lange,Festival Director “We are certain that audiences will be delighted with this year’s program and take the opportunity to engage with some of India’s most celebrated film makers”.