Trending:
Salman Khan
Karan Johar
Mumbai Indians
Search
SUBSCRIBE
Look Good
Style & Fashion
Watches
Grooming
How-Tos
Live Well
Food
Drink
Nightlife
Travel
Fitness
Sex
Get Smart
Personalities
Pop culture
Sports
Gadgets
GQ Playlist
GQ Gears
Cars
Bikes
GQ Drives
GQ Initiatives
Men of the year
The Gentlemen's Club
GQ Videos
Galleries
Twitter
Google
Instagram
Print
Digital
Newsletter
*
Get Smart
Sports
Warne's killer look and Mallya's pride
James Alter
26 April 2011
IPL week two in review: Gayle joins Royal Challengers, Dhawan's luck and Sehwag maths
IPL week two in review: Gayle joins Royal Challengers, Dhawan's luck and Sehwag maths
The Comeback
Two days after Royal Challengers Bangalore owner Vijay Mallya
tweeted his excitement at Chris Gayle joining the squad
, the coolest cat in cricket took the field and smashed his way to his first IPL century, the second-fastest in 2011, and secured victory over his former team, Kolkata Knight Riders. It was thrilling stuff, and proved a dramatic change in fortunes for a side that had dropped three matches in a row. In 55 balls, Gayle biffed 102 runs – the last four of which came after he instructed Virat Kohli to play out five balls in order to get him back on strike. “God is good. I think the crowd enjoyed the big sixes, I get cussed a lot when I don't get them,” said Gayle afterwards.
The Innings
After four indifferent innings in which he managed 72 runs, Virender Sehwag demanded a green-tinged wicket and duly got it. After being asked to bat first by Adam Gilchrist, Sehwag unleashed a ferocious innings that left Kings XI Punjab smarting at the decision to field. Having loaded into Praveen Kumar, Sehwag took a backseat as David Warner sped ahead. Then in six balls Sehwag leaped from 37 to 50, before he launched David Hussey for three successive sixes. Attempting a fourth, he picked out deep midwicket and walked off with the same poker face he wore when he came to the crease.
The Stat
Dissecting a Sehwag innings in Twenty20 by virtue of statistics is about as useful as a chocolate teapot, but one number tells a story: there were just four dot balls in his innings against Kings XI Punjab on Saturday evening. Yes, four.
The Warne effect
After a stellar first two matches, during which he purchased wicket drift and turn, Shane Warne’s slump in form coincided with that of his team,
Rajasthan Royals
. After two defeats to Kolkata, Warne was left fuming at a press conference during which he called out his mates for playing poor cricket. It had no effect, and Rajasthan lost their next game. And so Warne took it upon himself to lead from the front. Against Kochi Tuskers Kerala, Warne removed Brad Hodge with his fourth ball and stymied the batsmen with his bag of tricks. Keeping one over for himself, Warne returned for the 16
th
over and duly snuffed out the big wickets of Ravindra Jadeja and Parthiv Patel to finish with exemplary figures of 4-0-16-3. Bowled, Shane.
The Welcome
During that same match, Warne welcomed former Rajasthan team-mate Jadeja with a 109kmph bouncer, seam-up. Jadeja, after two seasons with Rajasthan, had sought to leave the team for greener pastures before being banned for a season, and clearly Warne hadn’t taken well to the youngster’s intentions. While Warne gave the player he once dubbed ‘Rockstar’ a vicious stare, the big screen flashed the word ‘Lethal’ in bold letters.
The Catch
Mumbai Indians have really worked on their fielding, under the watchful eye of Jonty Rhodes, and the results are coming. Kieron Pollard has taken some stunners this season, but the catch that trumped them all was held by Rohit Sharma. In the 13
th
over of Chennai Super Kings’ chase at the Wankhede, MS Dhoni contrived to leading edge a ball from Pollard that pitched outside leg stump. The ball ballooned away toward third man, where Rohit sprinted and dived full stretch to come up with a blinder. With that, Chennai’s reply petered away.
The Assault
Mumbai had recovered from 70 for 4 to 148 for 4 after 19 overs against Deccan Chargers in Hyderabad, thanks to a splendid partnership between Rohit and Andrew Symonds. The former Deccan team-mate batted well and ensured Mumbai were poised for a late surge. That came in the 20
th
over, bowled by Daniel Christian. The first ball, a full toss, was pummelled over long-off for six; the fourth mowed over midwicket for six; the fifth swung over square leg for six; and the sixth hit straight back for four. Twenty-four has come off the final over, and an attainable target had turned into an imposing one.
The Gambit
Having seen Bharat Chipli drop David Warner, the last man standing, Deccan captain Kumar Sangakkara gave the ball to Shikhar Dhawan. It was a brave decision, considering Dhawan had never bowled a ball in 49 prior Twenty20 matches. It was a clever one as it denied Warner the pace he loves. After getting rid of Warner second ball, it was also a successful one.
The friendship
Rahul Dravid and VVS Laxman have recorded many a match-turning or saving partnership for India in Tests, but this weekend there was no such familiar territory, playing both in the IPL and not with their home teams (as they have done for three seasons). It just didn’t quite seem right. As it turned out, Dravid put Laxman out of his misery by swooping in to collect the ball and then nailing a direct hit to run out his good mate by a yard.
See also:
IPL: week one reviewed
Inside Rajasthan Royals
The mind of Lalit Modi
YOU SHOULD ALSO READ
First look: Yuvraj Singh’s customised KTM Duke 390
Bikes
7 most cult watches ever
Watches
Cover story: Sonam Kapoor stripped down
Personalities
10 habits of highly unflabby people
Fitness
Go Down