Canadian Patrick Cote (right) fights Bobby Voelker during UFC 158 at the Bell Centre in Montreal Match 17, 2013. (MARTIN CHEVALIER/QMI Agency)
Related Stories
-
White: GSP's comments 'kooky'
Fighter nabs thief after high-speed chase
UFC hits Toronto in September
-
Bisping, Kennedy talkin' smack
-
-
Weidman-Machida postponed
Gina Carano considering a comeback
-
Nelson doesn't disappoint at Fight Night 39
Canadian fighters making huge TUF impact
-
MacDonald to fight Woodley
Davis gets shot at Rousey
Jones focused on Teixeira
If anyone is qualified to weigh in on the state of MMA in Canada, it’s Patrick Cote.
The Quebecois fighter’s been one of the Great White North’s top exports in the sport for the past decade since making his UFC debut in 2004, and is currently finishing up his duties as the coach of a group of young Canadian fighters on The Ultimate Fighter: Nations.
Unfortunately, Cote says there are still too many barriers for young fighters looking to make a living in MMA.
“The only problem with MMA in Canada is the organization,” Cote said. “We have some talent, we have some great guys around the country, but they have a hard time finding fights or a spot to fight and just show what their skills are.
“That’s the problem. We have good, good guys around the country and they’re just waiting for the opportunity to fight somewhere.”
Cote’s not the first to lament how hard it can be for Canadian fighters to find opponents.
Without a national promoter, up-and-coming Canadians are left seeking out fights with local promotions. Once a fighter develops a reputation for being dangerous in the octagon, prospective opponents have little incentive to step in the ring with them — after all, why risk a win-loss record blemish?
Speaking in February before a fight against Toronto’s Sergej Juskevic on Calgary’s Hard Knocks 34 card, promising Lethbridge, Alta. fighter Brandt Dewsbery explained how both he and his opponent ended up sitting on the sidelines, waiting for a fight for over a year.
“People want wins and want to get to the UFC and we both have records where people aren’t confident about going in and fighting us and getting wins,” the 23-year-old Dewsbery said. “It’s fighting, you’re supposed to go out there and be a man about it and not take the easy way.”
After spending time with the next generation of Canadians looking to make their mark on the UFC as a TUF coach, Cote’s not sure the challenges are getting any easier to overcome.
“There are a couple smaller organizations, but it’s hard for those guys in Canada and in Quebec to find a good organization to prove that they deserve to have a spot in a bigger show in the U.S. or somewhere else,” Cote said. “It’s really hard for those guys who are trying to start to have a career in MMA and I hope it’s gonna be better.”
For now, Cote’s focus is firmly on April 16, when he’ll return to the UFC octagon after more than a year off to fight Kyle Noke in the TUF finale.
It’s a chance for Cote to re-establish himself as a contender in the welterweight division, and Cote travelled to Thailand to train with Tiger Muay Thai to prepare. The three-week camp, combined with a renewed focus on training and nutrition, has the 34-year-old confident he’s got lots of time left fighting in the octagon.
“I feel better than ever,” Cote said. “Right now, I’m fighting because I still love it, not because I need it. I’m not nervous at all to go out there and perform, I’m just going to enjoy the moment.
“I don’t do the sport to be No. 3, I do the sport to be the champion and that’s what’s pushing me everyday to the gym.”
daniel.austin@sunmedia.ca
@SUNDannyAustin