An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind.
- Mahatma Ghandi
One doesn't have to operate with great malice to do great harm.
The absence of empathy and understanding are sufficient.
- Charles M. Blow, journalist
Twenty years of American foreign policy incompetence has led to an expected ending of disaster in Afghanistan which only U.S. State officials and the military chose not to see in their contingency planning, all the while the American public and a world of outsiders saw all too clearly. America should never have been on foreign soil, and in leaving, left only more death and suffering as violent ideologies took over as living legacies to America's unwanted presence. As a "Christian" nation we are takers, not builders. Our mirror is pitiful and must be broken in order to see again. May we finally learn the ways of peace and love, the ways of grace and forgiveness, towards a world as hardened as we are towards the other.R.E. SlaterAugust 20, 2021
AddendumYesterday and the day before yesterday I participated in a forum speaking out against White Christian Nationalism having sensed little difference between it and Islamic Jihadism. Both speak death. Both force upon people unwanted laws and restrictions. Both take away personal freedoms and rights (which I find ironic with the anti-vax crowd and facts deniers). Both harm the other, belittle the other, despise the other, and do not see the other. And both speak a religion ugly and deadly to the soul.I'll say again, the human heart is deeply corrupt. It speaks death before it speaks life. The God of all religions and nations says to us to learn to hold in our heart the attitude of "Malice Towards None." This is our task as humans struggling to become fully human as God intended (or as our spirit-souls long for deep within our minds and bodies, hearts and spirits). We share together a deep, deep sense of existential struggle of contrition before others, repentance from evil, humility and respect towards all.We feel it deeply in our bones the necessity to learn to speak peace, goodwill, honor, and love to one another. This the truest core of the Christian faith. Not its legalism, perversions, and enforced religious structures. When Christians speak war, vengeance and harm we do not speak the life-giving word(s) of God. Just our own selfish, prideful, words. Words which make us blind, deaf, and dumb to one another. Those we no longer can see, hear, or speak to....Mahatma Ghandi once said, "An eye for an eye will make the whole world blind." Let us then cast off the weight of hatred and malice towards one another and make this next millennium of human civilization about peace and goodwill. Let all nations learn the language of love by beating their metaphorical "swords into ploughshares" by seeking faith and trust with one another. Honor and respect.
The ways of the world can be the ways of beauty and joy if we allow it to be - which is the essence of John Lennon's songs. Chose then this day a new God, a radical God, One who has invested Himself in a radically new religion reviving the souls of the other. And a new social politick which heals, makes beautiful all around it, and nurtures every human benumbed by sin and evil.And finally, to move forward we must repent of our wicked ways, learn to forgive one another, be merciful to the ones we no longer see, and learn to reach out to the ones we have dismissed and despised.
Importantly, America's newest foreign policy and diplomacy must deploy a radically new motto: "To care for the other and this good earth." Let us learn then the language of grace and forgiveness as Jesus had taught us centuries ago. Which we have witnessed again-and-again in the lives of remarkable human beings filled with God's light and love given to us to guide us in renewing ways of caretake, wellbeing, and nurture for one another.
Peace,
R.E. Slater
August 20, 2021
John Lennon & Yoko Ono: WAR IS OVER! (If You Want It)
HAPPY XMAS (WAR IS OVER).
(Ultimate Mix, 2020) John & Yoko Plastic Ono Band
+ Harlem Community Choir
John Lennon & Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Mashup at MLK Day in Greenville, NC
Martin Luther King Jr. Nobel Peace Prize Acceptance Speech
Martin Luther King Jr. – Acceptance Speech
on the occasion of the award of the Nobel Peace Prize
in Oslo, Norway,.
Sooner or later all the people of the world will have
to discover a way to live together in peace ….
… peace is more precious than diamonds or silver or. Copyright © The Nobel Foundation 1964
* * * * * * * * * *
"An Indictment against American Foreign Policy"
"We came in as a wrecking ball
then realized others had come in before us
taking what they wanted
leaving their own death and destruction
as we would too."
- R.E. Slater
August 20, 2021
From Selma to Moscow: How Human Rights Activists
Transformed U.S. Foreign Policy
Illustrated, April 24, 2018
by Sarah B. Snyder (Author)
The 1960s marked a transformation of human rights activism in the United States. At a time of increased concern for the rights of their fellow citizens―civil and political rights, as well as the social and economic rights that Great Society programs sought to secure―many Americans saw inconsistencies between domestic and foreign policy and advocated for a new approach. The activism that arose from the upheavals of the 1960s fundamentally altered U.S. foreign policy―yet.
* * * * * * * * * *
PHOTOS OF THE TALIBAN IN KABUL, AFGHANISTAN,
AND FLEEING AFGHANIS
Mid-August, 2021
- R.E. Slater
August 10, 2021.