Family Cuckoos (Cuculidae)
Least Concern
Black Cuckoo (Cuculus clamosus)
Taxonomy
French: Coucou criard German: Schwarzkuckuck Spanish: Cuco negro
Taxonomy:
Cuculus clamosus
Latham, 1801,
Cape of Good Hope = Cradock, Eastern Cape, South Africa.
Distribution:
Liberia to Cameroon and N DRCongo E to South Sudan, S & E Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia, and S through Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, S DRCongo and Angola to N & C Namibia, Zimbabwe and E & S South Africa; also recorded in Sierra Leone (Gola Forest and Tiwai I), but mostly silent, suggesting it is probably only a non-breeding migrant#R. Migrates to equatorial W Africa, where recorded irregularly W to Senegambia.
Descriptive notes
31 cm; male 78–103·5 g, female 78–102·7 g. Adult black above, glossed greenish blue, tail tipped white; iris brown, bill black. Juvenile... read more
Voice
Often vocalizes at night. Loud, mournful slow whistle, “whoo whoo whee”, second note... read more
Habitat
Forest, open woodland, riparian woodland, farmbush, acacia thicket. In S Africa occurs in open... read more
Food and feeding
Insectivorous, taking mainly hairy (but also smooth) caterpillars (in E Cape, South Africa, mainly Bombycomorpha bifasciata), also... read more
Breeding
Breeds Oct–Dec in S Africa, Oct–Nov in Angola, Apr–Oct in Uganda, Mar–May in Kenya and Tanzania; few breeding... read more
Movements
Race gabonensis is sedentary in forests in W & C Africa. Race clamosus is... read more
Status and conservation
Not globally threatened. Generally common resident in forests in lower Guinea region of W Africa and equatorial C & E Africa, but uncommon to rare in Sudan, uncommon and... read more
Bibliography
Public comments
Only members are able to post public comments. To make the most of all of HBW's features, discover our subscriptions now!
HBW Alive Plans & Pricing Why subscribe
Formerly listed as C. cafer, but that name was officially suppressed, largely because of confusion with Clamator levaillantii. Several subspecies have been described on basis of plumage coloration, but it appears impossible to assign with complete confidence birds of a particular colour to a geographical area, although rufous-breasted individuals predominate in W Africa (formerly separated as race gabonensis) and black ones predominate in S Africa; in Ethiopia both forms occur in relatively equal proportion. Moreover, some birds from S Ethiopia to Uganda, W Kenya and NW Tanzania sometimes separated as race jacksoni, but these represent intermediates or intergrades between the other plumage types; further, individuals in forested regions of C Africa (Cameroon, Gabon and DRCongo) may be virtually all white below and have been separated as mabirae#R. The species may, therefore, be better treated as polymorphic than as polytypic. Monotypic.