USB Microphones
The Blue Yeti
As someone who had the privilege of working on some iconic microphones (including the industry standard ElectroVoice RE20), I still amazed by the sound quality of this offering from Blue. Some audiophile will likely leave a comment explaining why
As someone who had the privilege of working on some iconic microphones (including the industry standard ElectroVoice RE20), I still amazed by the sound quality of this offering from Blue. Some audiophile will likely leave a comment explaining why
The Yeti is actually three microphones in one. With three onboard condenser capsules, you can select the pickup pattern. That means you can set it to only record the sound coming from directly in front (great for one voice), the sound coming from the front and back (great for interviews), or the sound for all directions (great for recording music or multiple voices.)
One of my favorite features is the built in 3.5mm headphone jack. This allows you to plug in headphones and monitor your audio in real time without any delay often found with recording software.
Check out the sound. In each of these I am providing one version with raw audio (no processing added) and another version with some compression added in Adobe Premiere.
Blue Yeti – Blackout Edition – $107.99 (amazon.com)
The Blue Snowball
I still can’t believe that you can pick one of these up for around $50. I also see them at pawn shops for half that. While it doesn’t have quite the depth and clarity of the Blue Yeti, honestly, most people will never know the difference. This sits on my desk and I use it constantly for video conferences, YouTube videos, and quick voiceovers. It is also super portable so it goes in my bag when I am on the road.
It lacks the multiple pickup patterns of the Yeti as well as the 3.5mm headphone jack. However, if you don’t need those features, this is a great mic. If you are just starting your own podcast, this is a great place to start.
Take a listen to the audio demo. See if you can see the difference.
The Blue Snowball Ice $49 (amazon.com)
The CAD GXL2400 USB Microphone
My son got this microphone for his YouTube channel, gaming, video chats, and whatever else he needs audio for. It has a ton of 5-star reviews on Amazon so I thought I would test it out. I have to to admit, for another $50 microphone, it sounds pretty amazing. It looks like a far more expensive mic and, surprisingly, I believe it outperformed by Blue Snowball. Give it a listen for yourself.
CAD GXL2400 USB Microphone
Analog Microphones
Sennheiser MK4 Set Cardioid Condenser Large Diaphragm Microphone
After retiring my AKG C3000B, I am now using this amazing mic from Sennheiser. For the money, this is one of the best professional-grade microphones on the market.
MK4 Set Cardioid Condenser Large Diaphragm Microphone – $299.95 (amazon.com)
Shure SM58-LC Cardioid Dynamic Vocal Microphone –
These microphones sound great and are one of the most durable mics on the market. In my radio days, we used them for anything that was recorded or broadcast outside our studios. I have dropped more SM58s than I care to count and, when I picked them up, they sounded exactly the same. These are used by pros every day, and it is astounding that you can pick one up for $100. More than likely it will outlast every other piece of equipment you buy.
Shure SM58-LC Cardioid Dynamic Vocal Microphone – $99 (Amazon.com)
These are only a few of the great microphones available for church podcasting. If you are looking for something specific, feel free to reach out on Twitter @pastorwill.