What if?
What if the prayer I have been praying doesn’t feel like it’s going anywhere?
What if I asked someone else to pray for my request, someone who may have been in this same position and is more aware of God’s interest and involvement?
What if my prayers for someone else gave me hope and faith for my own needs?
What if more than one of us prayed for the same thing, would it have greater effect?
What if I’m not sure that I am praying according to God’s will?
What if I don’t have enough faith?
What if praying with others could give me more confidence in my praying for my own need, as well as for those I care about?
What if I don’t know the right words to explain my need?
What if I’m upset with God and don’t think He will listen to me?
What if I don’t want to pray, especially out loud?
What if I feel that God is going to do whatever He wants, with or without my prayer?
If any of the above sounds like something you may have felt or thought, welcome to the reality of our humanity. How we move forward will depend on our relationship with the Lord. We serve a wonderful, loving, patient Lord Jesus who is human as well as divine, and has been touched with every emotional feeling and heartache that any of us could every experience.
Not only has He “been there and done that,” He overcame and walked out with the victory. It’s the enemy of our faith who interferes with our thinking and counters with the thought, “hath God said,” about all that we “know” about the grace and mercy of our Savior. When our feelings are telling us one thing and the Word tells us another, we are the ones who need to make a deliberate choice.
The enemy loves to make you think that someone else is more spiritual that you are. Jesus is no respecter of persons. The faintest thought or cry is loud and clear to His waiting ear and heart. Praise God, He also translates our confused and mix-up thoughts and words into what our heart is trying to express. I find that I need to go back to worship and reconnect with the Holy Spirit who will lead me into all truth and or repentance (if necessary) and mend the emotional disconnect.
Why wouldn’t the One who loves you most not want you to share your innermost thoughts and concerns? “Come unto Me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” Matt.11:28 KJ
When His love is revealed, the words we offer aren’t as important as the intimacy of our relationship.
RS