Treasury of Scripture Knowledge
Summary
And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
To you
General references
Bible References
I have
Psalm 24:1
The earth is Yahweh's, with its fullness; the world, and those who dwell therein.
Psalm 115:16
The heavens are the heavens of Yahweh; but the earth has he given to the children of men.
Hosea 2:8
For she did not know that I gave her the grain, the new wine, and the oil, and multiplied to her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.
Acts 17:24
The God who made the world and all things in it, he, being Lord of heaven and earth, doesn't dwell in temples made with hands,
1 Timothy 6:17
Charge those who are rich in this present world that they not be haughty, nor have their hope set on the uncertainty of riches, but on the living God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy;
To you
Genesis 2:16
Yahweh God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat;
Genesis 9:3
Every moving thing that lives will be food for you. As the green herb, I have given everything to you.
Psalm 104:14
He causes the grass to grow for the livestock, and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food out of the earth:
Psalm 111:5
He has given food to those who fear him. He always remembers his covenant.
Psalm 136:25
Who gives food to every creature; for his loving kindness endures forever.
Psalm 145:15
The eyes of all wait for you. You give them their food in due season.
Psalm 146:7
who executes justice for the oppressed; who gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees the prisoners.
Psalm 147:9
He provides food for the livestock, and for the young ravens when they call.
Isaiah 33:16
he will dwell on high. His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks. His bread will be supplied. His waters will be sure.
Matthew 6:11
Give us today our daily bread.
Acts 14:17
Yet he didn't leave himself without witness, in that he did good and gave you rains from the sky and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness."
General references
Genesis 6:21
Take with you of all food that is eaten, and gather it to yourself; and it will be for food for you, and for them."