Titans vs Eels NRL predictions & best bets | Round 18, 2021
The new-look NRL will kick off in Round 18 when the Parramatta Eels take on the Gold Coast Titans at CBUS Super Stadium on Friday evening.
All 12 clubs based in New South Wales and the ACT have relocated to south-east Queensland to keep the competition alive amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and it is going to create havoc, at least for the first weekend of games.
The Gold Coast are fresh off a bye and a 44-6 win over Canberra in the preceding week, so there might be some value in taking them as a home underdog. They’ve had two weeks to prepare for a Parramatta team who are navigating the tricky and untested waters of hub life and could well be without Mitchell Moses and Junior Paulo should they not back up from State of Origin.
The Eels have a better side, but the unusual preparation could well play a huge role and without Moses they won’t have the same usual fluency in attack. If the Titans can get all three of their Origin forwards to back up, they should be right in this contest.
Titans vs Eels betting analysis
AJ Brimson, Tino Fa’asuamaleaui, Moeaki Fotuaika and David Fifita will all come off the bench for the Maroons less than 48 hours before the game against the Eels, so it will be interesting to see how Justin Holbrook uses them. To have a shot at beating the Eels, he will need to play them all, but just how many minutes can he squeeze out of the big units before they lose some effectiveness?
One thing you can almost be certain of is the points will flow, with the Titans averaging 51.8 total points in all their matches played this year, so the overs on 50.5 total points at $1.90 makes a terrific bet. David Fifita has 11 tries for the season so far, so there should be a healthy amount of money come in for him to barge over from close range. Kevin Proctor on the other edge is also another ‘value option’, having scored six in his 15 appearances this year.
Recommended!
Fast Payouts
50% matched deposit up to USD $5,000
Live Betting Odds
Claim a 50% deposit bonus up to the value of USD $250
While there is going to be a lot of weirdness to their week as the Eels leave Sydney and enter the NRL hub, one thing you can count on is either of Maika Sivo or Clint Gutherson to score a try at any time. Between them they have 27 tries for the season, and there is some money to be had if you combine them for a two-leg multi.
Mitchell Moses should back up from State of Origin, but Junior Paulo is less likely, so Moses might be another tryscorer to look for, especially if he has a strong debut for New South Wales. The 13+ margin on the Eels at $2.80 is where you will see a lot of punters place their cash considering the Titans have given up 90 points in their last two home games.
Key matchup: AJ Brimson vs Clint Gutherson
AJ Brimson will play the utility role for Queensland on Wednesday, but when he returns to fullback for the Titans, it is going to be hard to go past his individual battle with Clint Gutherson. Both men have exceptional motors; Gutherson might be the fittest player in the competition, but Brimson is not be far behind him. If fans could see an aerial shot of these two players and the ground they cover to create opportunities, only then would they get a full appreciation of their talents. Whether it is their ball-playing on the edges or supporting their offloading forwards through the middle, you cannot watch this game without hoping both the fullbacks are at their best.
Titans vs Eels predictions & value bets
Winning margin: Parramatta Eels by 13+ points
Parramatta might have a disrupted week, but they have won their last two games on the Gold Coast by the 13+ margin and should make it a hat-trick on Friday night. Provided they get Mitchell Moses back, the Eels will be too classy all across the park.
Same game multi: 3 legs @ $5.25
Parra will get up by the big margin, and both Clint Gutherson and Maika Sivo should have their chances to score. Put it all together for a $5.25 return at Sportsbet.