Pelican attack
I sure hope everyone's weeked was better than that of this woman, who was attacked in the face by a pelican.
SGVN.com
franco commented on I heart Craigslist
I sure hope everyone's weeked was better than that of this woman, who was attacked in the face by a pelican.
What every city council should be focusing its time on: Roosters. The Los Angeles City Council is taking on the issue of limiting one rooster per property because the birds are noisy, dirty and used in animal fights, City News Service reports.
Los Angeles Seeks Limits on Roosters
By ALICE WALTON
City News Service
LOS ANGELES - Concerned that roosters are noisy, dirty and often used in animal fights, the Los Angeles City Council today discussed a plan to restrict ownership of the birds to one per property.
The city's Animal Cruelty Task Force was instructed to report back in 30 days on the
ramifications of limiting possession of roosters, but not chickens.
Neighbors complain that roosters can be noisy and create sanitation issues, and Animal
Services officials warn that in many cases, roosters are used for cock-fighting.
"Animal Services has told me they receive 50 complaints a day about roosters," said City
Councilwoman Janice Hahn.
I wonder how the number of complaint calls compare to, say, graffiti.
And some of you laughed at me at the my random Craigslist blog post. I just call it foreshadowing on the story that Amanda Baumfeld reported today.."
Its been a busy past few days with water stories, fire and more water stories. So, I finally got a minute to breathe, and the top story of the day: teen queen Miley Cyrus, aka Hannah Montana, is wrapped up naked in an American flag.
I love Craigslist. I shouldn't, since it is one of the reasons why newspapers are dying. But I am a little bit addicted. No, not to the erotic section where you can find a prostitute. But I have used Craigslist to find roommates, activity partners and softball teams. In most cases, Craigslist has improved my life. When I first moved down to West Covina, I turned to Craigslist to find a roommate. When I needed to sell my bike, I found a good buyer off of Craigslist. When I was looking for freelance gigs, I found them on Craigslist.
But now that I think about it, I've put a little bit too much faith in the Web site.
Like last night, for example. I've been wanting to find a rock climbing partner, but everyone in my newsroom circle just looks at me cross eyed when I ask them to go climbing. So I turned to Craigslist. There was an add looking for a bouldering partner. I responded, called the guy and we agreed to meet at The Arc, a rock climbing gym in Arcadia. When I told my friends that I was meeting a guy who is a total stranger at the gym, they were convinced that I was going to be murdered. The guy ended up being totally normal -- not even a perv or a killer. The only downside is that, apparently, it was "date night" at the gym, and everyone kept on thinking that we were a couple. He was about 120 pounds and 5'5, whereas I am 5'7 and 150 pounds. Pretty unlikely couple.
And then there is the softball team I play on. I repsonded to an add looking for another female for the team. The team was in Covina, worked with my schedule and was cheap, so I figured, why not? After I agreed to play, the coach of the team said, "Well, let me tell you a little bit about the team. Most of us are former narcotics anonymous members..." Oh great. So I guess pizza and beer after the game is out of the question.
The team -- which hasn't won a game in four seasons -- has ended up being extremely entertaining. Whether it's the outfielder who plays while smoking a ciggarette, the parents whose child was just expelled for bringing a butcher knife to school or the couple of guys that have spent a combined 20 years in prison, there's plenty to talk about.
Oh yeah, and then there was the roommate search in the summer. The "best" roommate I found off Craigslist ended up robbing our house on my birthday, then staying in the house for about one month before I evicted her. I know, I know. I am a reporter, I should have known better. But I was desperate.
But even after the last six months of questionable finds on Craigslist, I know that when newspapers are finally dead, I have a Web site to include in my job hunt.