*Audio Highlights* with LaRouche
Stop the 'New Violence,'Create a New Renaissance'
Helga Zepp LaRouche Speech to Sao Paulo State Appellate Criminal Court,
Dr. Renato Nalini
Sao Paulo Awards Lyndon LaRouche Honorary Citizenship
June 17, 2002 - In a solemn ceremony June 12, 2002, economist, statesman, and pre-candidate Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. was awarded honorary citizenship for Sao Paulo, by the City Council of that city of more than 18 million people, the third largest in the world.
LaRouche was invited to Brazil to receive this honor by Dr. Havanir Nimtz, the principal representative on the Sao Paulo City Council of the PRONA party, City Council session was later formally suspended, in order to convoke the special session awarding LaRouche his citizenship. The ceremony, held in an auditorium in the City Council building, commenced with a military band playing the national anthem of Brazil, and an a capella rendition of the U.S. national anthem. After the official proclamation was handed to LaRouche, Dr. Havanir and Dr. Eneas each spoke about Mr..
LaRouche gave three public addresses during his week-long visit to Brazil, in addition to his speech to the City Council ceremony. than,.
On June 13, LaRouche was the featured speaker at a business luncheon sponsored by the Sao Paulo Commercial Association, which drew over 40 of Brazil's leading businessmen, keenly interested in discussing new solutions for the global economic crisis, as Brazil's financial pyramid begins to crumble.
The following day, LaRouche. The seminar, held at the auditorium of the ADESG in Sao Paulo, opened to a full house, with a public exchange of ideas between LaRouche and Colonel Seineldin, the latter hooked up by telephone from his military prison in Argentina. LaRouche then addressed the political and epistemological basis on which successful integration of Ibero-America, as between any differing nations, must be built..
See above for other presentations in Sao Paulo, Brazil
Related Pages
Who is Lyndon LaRouche?
LaRouche's Speech on Brazil Agriculture, October, 2001
In the Footsteps of John Quincy Adams
Call for A Dialogue of Cultures
The American Intellectual Tradition
LaRouche Dialogues in 2002
New Bretton Woods Is Needed Now- -To Defeat The Cult of Free Trade
Eurasian Landbridge- "Go there!"
Stop the New Violence
JOIN THE SCHILLER INSTITUTE!
Physical Econmy