My one-year-old and I are reading through every board book at our local library. For more about this project, check out this post.
This week we skipped over one book we own:
Brown Bear, Brown Bear by Bill Martin Jr. and Eric Carle
You’ve all read this one. Various animals tell what they see, ending with children seeing all the previous animals in succession. Sweet, rhythmic, and classic.
Now the new books for this week!
1. Sheep in a Jeep by Nancy Shaw, illustrated by Margot Apple
The sheep drive a jeep, then crash in a heap. Vivacious writing with lots of rhymes and great humor. Loved it.
2. The Runaway Bunny by Margaret Wise Brown, illustrated by Clement Hurd
Baby bunny lists ways he’ll run away. Momma bunny lists ways she’ll come find him. I have fond childhood memories of this sweet book, but if you’re on the snarky side you might find it saccharine. Since most of the illustrations are black and white it’s probably best for either very young babies, or slightly older toddlers with more patience. My son wasn’t into it, but we’ll try again later.
3. Llama Llama Trick or Treat by Anna Dewdney
Clearly someone donated the entire set of these to my library. Once again we have a fun little holiday story with colorful art. I don’t have much more to say about these. They’re all cute, brief, and probably best if you’re already familiar with the characters.
4. Simba and Nala At Play by ?
Simba does everything the opposite of Nala. Funny, if brief. Better than average for a movie-based book.
5. Colors Everywhere by Sam McBratney, illustrated by Anita Jeram
Based on the bestseller “Guess How Much I Love You,” this book shows Big and Little Nutbrown Hare naming their favorite things in various colors. Sweet, but forgettable. Also, for a book about colors, the art is rather muted.
6. Zoom City by Thacher Hurd
Cars go fast. One thing I liked about this book is it’s designed specifically for 12-18 month olds. HarperFestival apparently has a whole line of these for various age groups. My son loved the art, though I found it a little weird. But we read it several times this week, so it achieved its goal.
7. Follow Your Nose, Baby Pluto by ?
Pluto tracks down several smells. Also it’s his birthday, and the babies are working the barbecue unsupervised. I’m not going to remember this book at all by next week.
8. Bye-Bye Time by Elizabeth Verdick, illustrated by Marieka Heinlen
A girl gets dropped off at daycare and uses various strategies to feel better about saying bye-bye to Daddy. A smart book that would be a great tool when preparing for separations.
9. Hello, World! Weather by Jill McDonald
Lists various kinds of weather and tells baby what to wear to be comfortable outside. Practical, with lively art and some cute lines like, “Your pet might like a sweater, too!” Better than the other weather books we’ve looked at in this project.
10. The Crayons’ Book of Numbers by Drew Daywalt, illustrated by Oliver Jeffers
Count 1 to 10 with the crayons from the bestselling book The Day the Crayons Quit. I haven’t read the book this is based on, but the crayons’ personalities make me want to go find it.
Conclusion:
Best Book of the Week: Sheep in a Jeep by Nancy Shaw, illustrated by Margot Apple
While none of this week’s books stood out as either amazing or terrible, the humor in this one makes it a winner.