S.2721 - Social Security Caregiver Credit Act of 2016114th Congress (2015-2016)
BillHide Overview
Tracker:
This bill has the status Introduced
Here are the steps for Status of Legislation:
- Introduced
Subject — Policy Area:
- Social Welfare
- View subjects
Text: S.2721 — 114th Congress (2015-2016)All Information (Except Text)
There is one version of the bill.
Text available as:
- XML/HTML
- XML/HTML (new window)
- TXT
- PDF (PDF provides a complete and accurate display of this text.) Tip?
Shown Here:
Introduced in Senate (03/17/2016)
To amend title II of the Social Security Act to credit individuals serving as caregivers of dependent relatives with deemed wages for up to five years of such service.
Mr. Murphy (for himself and Mr. Sanders) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance
To amend title II of the Social Security Act to credit individuals serving as caregivers of dependent relatives with deemed wages for up to five years of such service.
This Act may be cited as the “Social Security Caregiver Credit Act of 2016”.
SEC. 2. Findings and Sense of the Senate.
(a) Findings..
(b)) (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the term ‘qualifying month’ means, in connection with an individual, any month—
“(i) beginning after the date which is 60 months prior to the date of the enactment of the Social Security Caregiver Credit Act of 2016, and
“(ii) during which such individual was engaged for not less than 80 hours in providing care to a dependent relative without monetary compensation.
“(B) The term ‘qualifying month’, sibling, aunt, or uncle (of such individual or his or her spouse or domestic partner), or such individual’s spouse or domestic partner, if such child, grandchild, niece, nephew, parent, sibling,
“(ii) without the assistance described in clause (i), could not perform such activities of daily living or instrumental activities of daily living.
“(B) The ‘activities of daily living’ referred to in subparagraph (A) means basic personal everyday activities, including—
“(i) Eating.
“(ii) Bathing.
“(iii) Dressing.
“(iv) Toileting.
“(v) Transferring in and out of a bed or in and out of a chair.
“(C) The ‘instrumental activities of daily living’ referred to in subparagraph (A) means activities related to living independently in the community, including—
“(i) Meal planning and preparation.
“(ii) Managing finances.
“(iii) Shopping for food, clothing, or other essential items.
“(iv) Performing essential household chores.
“(v) Communicating by phone or other form of media.
“(vi) Traveling around and participating in the community.
“(b) Deemed Wages of Caregiver.— (1) (A) For purposes of determining entitlement to and the amount of any monthly benefit for any month after December 2016,) Rules and regulations.—
“(1)).
“(2) A qualifying month shall not be taken into account under this section with respect to an individual unless—
“(A) the individual submits to the Commissioner of Social Security an application for benefits under this section that includes—
“(i) the name and identifying information of the dependent relative with respect to whom the individual was engaged in providing care during such month;
“(ii) if the dependent relative is not a child under the age of 12, documentation from the physician of the dependent relative explaining why the dependent relative is a chronically dependent individual; and
“(iii) such other information as the Commissioner may require to verify the status of the dependent relative; and
“.”.
(b) Conforming amendment.—Section 209(k)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 409(k)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking “and” before “230(b)(2)” the first time it appears; and
(2) by inserting “and 235(b)(1)(A)(i),” after “1977),”.