What are the Business Benefits of a Genset?
What are the Business Benefits of a Genset?
These days, many businesses are not only reliant on electricity to run, but also their backup genset or in the event that the main power supply goes out. You spend years running a business, changing its processes and making huge leaps towards a goal that you set yourself decades ago. Now imagine that all of that hard work you’ve spent is wiped out because of a power shortage, and you’ve just lost a lot of data and/or work that your business has been building up for years.
Planning for continuity is important, but what’s also important is planning backup solutions in the event that something goes wrong. What if the power goes out to your production facility or factory? All of your power will simply disappear and your production will be halted. This could cause massive delays and it will cost you potentially millions of dollars in lost profits.
Even working as a freelancer at home is reliant on backup power. What if you’re writing up important documents and find yourself in the dark due to a power outage caused by adverse weather? With deadlines looming, you’re going to have a hard time delivering your work on time, which is why even small businesses and at-home entrepreneurs should rely on backup power.
Natural Disasters and Their Impact on Your Business
In August 2011, the powerful hurricane Irene took the east coast by surprise. With an estimated $10 - 15 billion dollars worth of damage, 7.4 million homes and businesses losing power and around 3.3 million without power even 3 days after the hurricane, it’s easy to see just how impactful and frustrating it can be to deal with natural disasters.
However, Irene was just a small hurricane compared to the disaster that struck the United State in 2005. It caused around $75 billion worth of damage to property and caused an economic impact in Louisiana and Mississippi that cost an estimated $150 billion in damage. Over 81,000 businesses were hit by this economic disaster and around 450,000 jobs were lost. Over 2 million people lost power and it took over 8 months to fully recover power connections.
Although few and far between, natural disasters have the ability to completely destroy your business. This is why it’s important to rely on backup power to ensure that you not only stay in business but also so you can recover your company should something like this ever happen again.
How a Loss of Power Affects Businesses
Let’s take a look at just how a loss of power can affect businesses.
If we imagine a grocery store, we can think about all of the products that require electricity. For instance, frozen foods and dairy need to be stored in specific conditions in order to be fresh for the customer. Now imagine if power is lost to those refrigeration units–everything would spoil and you would lose hundreds or thousands of dollars from perishable goods.
What about offices? Because offices are so reliant on technology, losing power to your devices typically means that work is lost. In some cases, power surges can even damage your technology and potentially ruin hard drives and computers. This can lead to the destruction of data which will cost your business if you don’t have a reliable backup.
Most businesses need some kind of plan to prepare for these outages, and a backup silent generator can give you enough time to make the right decision immediately after the power fails. In addition, purchasing a generator is often more expensive once an impending disaster is announced. This means that it’s far cheaper and smarter to purchase one now, have it professionally installed and then tested before it needs to be put into action.
Protecting Your Business From Power Outages
One of the good things about backup power is that it’s extremely easy to restore power. You simply hook up the system to your regular power lines and then it kicks into action as soon as it detects that your power has gone out. This gives you enough time to save your data, make some final communications or even continue working should your generator be large enough.
It’s surprisingly simple to install as well once you have the right permits and determine the size of the generator. Specifications are handed out by the manufacturer and the installation can also be carried out by the same company. Units can also be customized depending on your needs, such as structural problems or challenges. They’re also capable of being hidden away in basements, or simply out of view so that customers don’t see them and they’re not an annoyance to staff.
Noise and vibrations are the two main challenges that business owners face when purchasing a backup generator. Having them installed in the wrong location or without sufficient protection can often mean that they become a hindrance to other parts of your office or business. Thankfully, it’s easy to draw up plans and designs to ensure that your backup generator doesn’t lower the quality of life at your workplace.
Although generators can be expensive, it’s also possible to purchase used generators that will offer you fantastic savings over new units. Mobile units can also be purchased for smaller businesses, or even for use at some. When there are size restrictions, a small unit can also be a blessing. However, it’s never a bad idea to have a full-sized permanent generator planned because they offer more customization and power to help your business stay afloat should disaster strike.
Final Words
Disasters will eventually hit–there’s no doubt about it. When your power goes out, the last thing you want is to completely lost track of your business for several days and forfeit all of your hard work. Planning for continuity is one of the most important concerns in business, and having a backup generator is perhaps one of the simplest ways to prepare for adversity.