Vintage Gluebook? What’s a glue book?
It’s a book containing art made with paper and glue. A freeing way to play and practice, a gluebook strips away paints, inks, rubber stamps and embellishments. It focuses primarily on collage.
What’s a vintage gluebook? It’s a gluebook made with vintage imagery and paper, creating antique-style collage.
· Do you want to learn collage, or increase your collage skills? Would you like someone to guide you and show you, step-by-step, exactly how they create balanced and cohesive collage?
· Do you love vintage materials and can’t get enough? Have you wondered where other artists get their one-of-a-kind supplies…and how you can too?
· Would you like to develop your own personal style, with your own designs in paper and ephemera?
Your Vintage Gluebook is a fun, self-paced online class. All 9 lessons, and every paper and image used in class is available to you right away. You can start creating immediately.
A combination of information and hands-on practice, each class includes a practice collage to reinforce the lesson. You can complete the class with 10 or more finished pages in your own Gluebook.
Your Vintage Gluebook Online Class… With Materials, Ideas and Instructions for Vintage Collage.
The Class is self paced, and available now. The cost is $35 per person. Now just $17.50!
This online class has probably the shortest materials list in the world - you’ll need scissors, paper and glue! Choose a book to work in, or use loose paper to bind later. Add a few optional tools if you'd like and you're all set.
I show you every supply I work with, and list the books and resources I recommend – no wondering!
Paper:
Concerned about having the right papers? Every image and every page used in class has been scanned for your use too. You’ll receive access to over 2 dozen pages of images - papers and ephemera from my own collections. Print the ones you like and use them right away.
There's a checklist of my paper basics and some fun extras, so you’ll know them when you see them online or at your local flea markets and antique stores.
You’ll learn how I store the papers I use (not by color!) and how I can clean up my work table in under a minute.
Learn about such diverse things such as shopping online for great materials, and creating your own one-of-a-kind papers.
Collage:
A big part of Your Vintage Gluebook is about composition. The class will help you spot parts of a page or image to use to get the biggest impact. You'll see "bad" pages and better ones, made from exactly the same elements. You'll see how a tiny bit of paper can balance a piece, get my personal to-do's for collage, and even learn a little rhyme to use when all else fails.
Be as specific or general as you like - there's no wrong way to take this class. The material is flexible enough that you can recreate the exact collages I do in class, use them as guides to create your own versions, or just check them over for a few good ideas.
And my promise to you? You'll hate the first page you do! But I'll tell you why and keep you moving on, to your own pages that you'll love!
These classes have something for any skill level and are especially great for a beginner. If you’re starting from scratch, I take you through my process step-by-step. If you’re an experienced artist, and want to get a look at how other artists create, you'll get all of my tips and tricks.
I share everything I’ve learned playing in my own vintage gluebook, so you can enjoy creating paper and glue collage too.
Class Format:
I like using the blog format for online classes – it’s easy for artists who are already familiar with the Internet. Students will access the blog at their convenience and all of the lessons and images are available imediately.
To be successful in this course, you should have basic computers skills. While much of the content is in the form of blog posts, there will be documents and images to download, and a video to watch.
Images are provided in 2 ways so they’re convenient for everyone: You can choose to get all of the PDF collage sheets in an easily downloadable zip file; or the same sheets are available individually in jpeg form in the blog’s photo album. There are no digital picture skills necessary, other than downloading and printing the images.
Your Vintage Gluebook Online Class… With Materials, Ideas and Instructions for Vintage Collage.
The Class blog will remain open until October 1, 2013.
The Class is available now, the cost is $35 per person. Now just $17.50!
Please email me at greenpaperpack@aol.com if you have any questions.
ALREADY REGISTERED? CLICK HERE TO SIGN IN.