LANSING, MI — In the minds of new business owners Paul Bussard and Paul Fox, wine is something everyone can enjoy.
With their new business, P Squared Wine Bar, the two Pauls hope to introduce downtown Lansing to wine in a non-intimidating fashion, providing a casual atmosphere and wines for every price range.
The bar and restaurant opened this week at 107 Washington Square South and offers 100 types of wines, including 20 Michigan varieties. A number of food options also are available.
Fox and Bussard, both Lansing natives, are passionate about wine and saw an opportunity to create a market for their passion in the heart of the downtown.
"We've been lovers of wine for quite a few years," Bussard said. "We think we can carve a niche. Everyone we've talked to seems really excited that we're doing this."
Bussard traces his own love of wine back to his second Iraq deployment while serving in the U.S. National Guard. When he was in Iraq, Bussard read a lot of material about wine and became interested in the history behind the drink.
"I couldn't drink it at the time, so I learned about it," he said.
Under Huntington National Bank's Small Business Associate's Patriot Express program, Bussard received a $120,000 loan to help get P Squared up and running as he transfers into civilian life, according to a press release from the bank.
Bussard and Fox have backgrounds in business and management, so once the idea was tossed around to get a wine bar up and running, it never went away. For more than a year, they've gone through exhaustive preparation to make sure their business will succeed, Fox said.
"Between the two of us, we have the confidence and skill set to make this a reality," Fox said.
Fox and Bussard consider themselves two normal guys who happened upon wine and loved it, so they plan on marketing it to everyone — not just wine snobs.
To help accomplish this, P Squared features several electronic menus on customized iPads that help customers as they determine which wines might suit their tastes. The iPads categorize the wine into various groupings such as price, flavor, region or complementary foods and allows customers to order right from their menus.
Fox said social media also has played a key factor in their business model. From the get-go, they've placed emphasis on their website and Twitter account to hype the business even before it opened.
Now that P Squared is open for business, Bussard said he's hopeful that hype translates into a prosperous new business in downtown Lansing where people can get together and enjoy wine for what it is — a delicious drink with a lot of history.
"I love to talk wine with people and get into the dorky, science side of it," he said. "But even if people don't know anything about it, we want them to try. It's fun, and as long as it tastes good to you and you enjoy it, that's all that matters."
P Squared Wine Bar is open from 11 a.m. to midnight Monday through Thursday, 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. on Friday and noon to 1 a.m. on Saturday.