Dear Write To Connect students--see you tomorrow, and here are some important details....!
Thanks to everyone who RSVPed for the first day of the first Write To Connect workshop series, October 29 2010. I know one or two of you can’t begin until November 1 and that is just fine.
The class is at the Independent Living Resource Center San Francisco from 3-5pm. The address is 649 Mission, cross streets are 2nd and 3rd. It is right next door to the Cartoon Art Museum. The closest BART is Montgomery. Go one block south on 2nd Street to Mission after you come above ground from the Montgomery BART. If you live in SF, you can also take the 2, 3, or 14 bus
If you get lost or need any kind of assistance, please call me at 415 867 1124.
Please bring whatever tools you need to do some spontaneous informal writing/journaling—pens, paper, laptop, slate and stylus, voice recorder, etc. Bring a journal if you have one.
Only bring what is absolutely necessary for you to write. If you are unable or do not feel comfortable lugging your adaptive tech over, we can work something out. I can act as a note taker and can give you a quiet space, if you are using a voice recorder, to write. (Just note that I do not have a adaptive tech equipment to share—except possibly a laptop with Zoom Text.)
If you have concerns after the first class as to how the physical set up will work for you, in terms of being able to write while in class, we can talk about it in detail on Friday afternoon.
ILRC is totally wheelchair accessible and please remember to abide by their No SCENT policy (pasted below).
I am am really looking forward to meeting you—and no worries! A few of you have written expressing doubt about not being in the right space to come, about writer’s block and about not being a strong writer. So, I want to reiterate, this is not a class about pressure or deadlines or any one particular type of writing. This is a class that can be used like yoga or meditation or even just a good conversation—helping you use writing to connect to your body, your intuitions, your community and other parts of your life.
See you soon!
Questions? Call me or email!. If you are wearing scents, you will not be able to remain in the office.