The 10.1 incher Samsung Galaxy Tab is popular for all the wrong reasons especially after Apple moved the court for a ban of the tablet in the States. But not much damage was done as the tablet wasn’t selling well anyways. But here we have a successor to the tablet in the form of the Galaxy Tab 2 (10.1). Previously, a version of the tablet with the model number SGH-I479 visited the FCC which was later known to be AT&T’s version of the tablet, complete with 4G radios on board. This one however bears the model number SGH-T779, and very little was known about it. But the folks at Unwired View were smart enough to figure out that the tablet is indeed the Galaxy Tab 2 (10.1) and is heading over to T-Mobile. They placed the FCC rendering on top of the original picture of the Galaxy Tab 2 (10.1) and it seemed to have matched perfectly.
T-Mobile already has the Galaxy Tab 7.0 Plus which also features 4G radios, so this should be a decent addition to its lineup. The tablet has been available globally for quite a few months now. There’s nothing to write home about when it comes to the specs of the new Galaxy Tab 2 (10.1) as it mostly features hardware from last year. In a time when quad core chipsets are running the show, at least in the Android sphere, a dual core TI OMAP chipset just won’t cut it. We hope Samsung has new and improved hardware on board the American variants of the tablet. But 4G connectivity will be a huge plus for potential buyers, as it is one of the very few 4G compatible tablets from Samsung.
All things considered, we feel that the new Galaxy Tab 2 (10.1) will lose out to its superior sibling the Galaxy Note 10.1 which is available in the States since last month. So unless Samsung has some major hardware upgrades for the American variant of the 10.1 inch Galaxy Tab 2, we don’t see it making any damage to the likes of the iPad or any other competitive tablet. We’ll however wait till the device is launched to see if it’s got what it takes. For now, it seems like the tablet is heading to AT&T and T-Mobile.
Source: Unwired View
Via: Phone Arena