Comment from eLoran Technologies staff:
The big question today ‘’who invented the internet’, notwithstanding Al Gore’s claim, there is no question of who invented the ‘solid state’ Loran transmitter, at its core the innovative ‘magnetic (Loran) pulse (forming and shopping) compression technology. Dr Paul Johannessen founded the company Megapulse (1970) to exploit the technology breakthrough and apply it to the network of legacy ‘tube type’ Loran transmitters. After thorough vetting and exhaustive validation tests, 4 years in the making, the technology was approved (1974) as the technology of choice under a USCG initiative and modernization program; and mandate to provide Loran coverage and with it PNT services to the US maritime and timing communities. The mandate extended to GA with the closure of the mid continent (Loran) gap in 1986. Clearly, Paul’s achievements rest on the prior work of other, that had its beginning at the newly formed MIT radiation Lab in 1940, and recognized as a major (one of four) milestone at a recent (June 2012) IEEE Milestone in Electrical Engineering and computing awards presentation by the IEEE Boston chapter. Nevertheless Paul’s unique achievements, in the process of discovery and invention, was a major contribution to the development of a stable and reliable National Loran Network, in the US; and worldwide. Paul’s fertile mind extended the vision and applied the necessary resources to develop and to make the Loran network the terrestrial equivalent of GPS or as a backup absent GPS. Erik Johannessen, President of Megapulse accepted the honors on behalf of the Loran communities, provided the historical context in the development of the technology and spoke of the splendid collaborative effort of the many to deliver important (new) capabilities in the design and development of the ‘next generation’ eLoran PNT&C equipment and services to make Paul’s vision reality.
By Ivan Berger for IEEE.org
One breakthrough from the 19th century and three originating in 20th-century defense research were recognized in June as IEEE Milestones in Electrical Engineering and Computing.:.
[Read about the rest of the award recipients…]