“Free the child’s potential, and you will transform him into the world” ~ Dr. Maria Montessori
Choosing the right school is your most important responsibility as a parent when enrolling your child to a nursery, kindergarten or a daycare centre.
You want the best for your child: an environment where his/ her intellectual abilities and self-esteem grow hand-in-hand, where imagination and curiosity are cultivated, where s/he learns to respect all culture and all people, and where teachers genuinely care for them.
Kids Love Learning is just such a place.
Our mission is to establish lasting peace through the work of education, not politics. We do our best to nurture individuals to have the ability to think and contribute positively to a progressive and harmony society, towards world peace.
We aim to maintain a safe learning environment to aid the optimal total-child development, in the areas of intellectual, physical, language, social, and emotions.
Our objectives include:
To maintain a Child Friendly School for children regardless of race, social class, religion, gender and nationality.
To provide children a sound foundation and the necessary skills to excel in the Primary school.
To support parents by offering child care and education services up to Primary 6.
We prepare our students academically and socially, so that they are equipped to take on the challenges that s/he may encounter in the next learning and developmental phase when they leave us.
Our comprehensive curriculum includes key concepts and fundamental academic skills:
English – Phonics Reading, Vocabulary Building, Grammar, Creative Writing, Spoken
Bahasa Malaysia – Phonics Reading, Vocabulary Building, Grammar, Creative Writing, Spoken
Mandarin – Reading, Vocabulary Building, Grammar, Creative Writing, Spoken, Phonetics (Hanyu Pinyin)
Mathematics – Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Division, Geometry
Culture – World Culture, Geography, History
Science – Biology, Experiments, Projects
Sensorial Activities
Practical Life Activities
Co-curricular activities are introduced to enhance academic learning, facilitate artistic development, promote social development and refine motor development:
Gym
Art & Craft
Music & Movement
Water Play
Sand Play
Annual Thematic Projects
Field Trips
Our comprehensive services take care of the child and parents’ needs for:
Kindergarten
Before/ After School Care
Daycare
Tuition
Homework Guidance/ Tutoring
Enrichment Activities – Music, Art/ Drawing, Taekwondo, Leadership, Speech & Drama, Dance
The foundation for a child’s effective learning is a good relationship with his/her family, teachers and peers. Our parents are encouraged to meet with our teachers during regular Child Assessment Meetings to discuss their children’s progress. Parent’s involvement is also possible through various activities held regularly throughout the year.
Cookies and Stories is our latest campaign to promote reading in young children. Every 2nd Saturday of the month, the school library and its activities are open to all children, not just to Kids Love Learning’s students. Come with your family and friends to enjoy listening to story telling, choose from over 100 titles to read, and you may even borrow a book at the end of the session, and best of all, you get to savour healthy cookies made from my kitchen 🙂
Visit our school today to see how our children behave. Because they have been nurtured in a way that is truly conducive for total child development, you will see our children display positive values like empathy, care, understanding, tolerance, patience, and helpfulness. They are smart, confident, articulate, resourceful, motivated, and most important, Joyful.
Spend some time with us and you’ll find your answer to what’s ideal for your child.
Karen Wong
Founder, Principal
Kids Love Learning
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….
2013 End of Year School Holidays FUN Camp