Sudbury to get $4 million soccer bubble
.
"It takes leadership and an idea in the community to come together and make things happen," said Sudbury MPP Glenn Thibeault, during an emotional announcement at Lasalle Secondary on Thursday evening. "I’m very, very pleased to be able to say that through the province of Ontario and our budget, we’ll be investing $4 million to build a public, multipurpose sports facility here."
A personal friend of Fabio Belli, the MPP choked up while talking about the importance of realizing the late councillor’s goal.
"It’s his vision that’s actually come to fruition today," he said. "It’s his idea. And I’m so happy to be able to help finish that."
The plan is to build the enclosed sport surface on the grounds of the New Sudbury high school, with construction potentially beginning as early as this spring.
Norm Blaseg, director of education with the Rainbow District School Board, said the development still pends approval of trustees, but there was already a plan — and budget — in place to create a field of artificial turf, so it is only a matter of the board agreeing to have that surface covered for all-year use.
The $4 million should cover the entire cost of the structure and the school board will not have to contribute financially, he said. It will simply host the facility and be a partner in its operation, along with the Fabio Belli Foundation and the City of Greater Sudbury.
"As the largest school board in Northern Ontario, we recognize the important role we have in promoting and nurturing healthy and active lifestyles," said Blaseg. "When we move, we improve."
Another plan for a soccer dome has been in the works through the Sudbury District Soccer Club, which hoped to create a similar facility through a private company on the grounds of Sacre Coeur high school.
That could still theoretically happen, although it’s questionable the community could support two indoor turf venues.
The mood Thursday at the Lasalle gymnasium, packed with students as well as members of the sporting community, was "truly a celebration," as Thibeault put it, albeit one that was bittersweet, given the absence of the dome’s original driving force.
Susan Belli, the widow of Fabio, noted the anniversary of her husband’s death is just one week away.
It was a day that "changed my life, my daughters’ lives and the lives of many others," she said. "I had thought that I might be standing here watching him make this announcement one day, not ever believing that I would be standing here in his memory."
But while it was painful to not have him present, Belli said it was wonderful to finally see a development he championed come together.
"His life revolved around sports," she said, noting he took her to a miniputt course on their first date. "He was always trying to promote sport in the community."
Belli thanked the members of the Fabio Belli Foundation, including Michel Lariviere, Dennis Reich and Dino Moretta, for "staying true to Fabio’s vision" and pushing so hard to obtain funding for the facility, with help from Thibeault.
Daughter Emma, just four years old when her dad died, also stepped to the microphone in the gym at Lasalle to share her thoughts on the project.
"Whenever summer is over, people just think soccer’s over," she said. "But now they will be able to play all year long, even when you look outside and see snow. I will feel happy when I see my dad’s name because it was important to him."
The timing of the announcement was apropos, weather-wise, with Lasalle’s playing fields buried below an unseasonal mantle of white stuff.
"In the unlikely event some of you wondered about the urgency of this facility, Sudbury blizzards in April might be a good reminder," quipped Lariviere, the Belli Foundation’s chair.
He said he was proud to be part of a "special venture" that will both honour Fabio and "create opportunities for citizens to participate in a variety of activities indoors. It will change the landscape of Sudbury."
Al Sizer, councillor for the New Sudbury area, noted the facility won’t only accommodate soccer games in the winter months, but also host a wide range of other sports, including baseball, field hockey, lacrosse, rugby and ultimate Frisbee.
The investment is "not limited to bricks and mortar," Sizer added. "The real investment is in the physical, social and economic benefits that a multi-sports facility will deliver to build a healthier community, and it’s that added quality of life that attracts and retains youth and professionals."
Having a place in Sudbury where teams can compete in winter will also be far more convenient — and safe — than travelling dicey highways to southern Ontario, noted Jean-Gilles Laroque of The Baseball Academy.
"We’re driving that road every winter and it seems like you’re white-knuckling it every time," he said. "But we won’t have to go through that anymore."
Laroque cited alarming statistics about the rate of obesity among Sudbury youth — nearly a third of whom are considered overweight — but said that might change with the addition of another venue for exercise.
"I truly believe we’re going to change those numbers," he said.
Laroque added kids under the age of 14 account for 30,000 of Sudbury’s citizens.
"That’s 16 per cent of our population, but in my opinion they are 100 per cent of our future," he said. "So when I see Little Fabio (a baby whose mom, Romina Rocca, is Fabio’s niece) sitting there, I’m excited, because you are going to have something like this to participate in. We’re opening the doors for the rest of our generations moving forward."
jmoodie@postmedia.com
. . . .
Do you have any opinions about this story? Send them to sud.letters@sunmedia.ca