
Hiding Her Obsession - Her mother didn't think
Kendall had a problem with food, but her daughter was using
dangerous methods to lose weight.
She talks about it on the Oprah show.
View with
Real Player.
Frustrated researchers became excited when studies on
bulimia nervosa
indicated that it may be closely
related to mood disorders, particularly
depression. Some researchers reported that as many as 80 percent of the
bulimic patients studied had major mood disorders at some point during their
lives. There was also a high incidence in their family histories. This led
to the argument that heredity and
genetics play a major role in depression
and bulimia nervosa and that both could be the result of the same type of
biological disorder that runs in families. Further convincing evidence
showed up in the treatment response, since a high percentage of bulimics
responded positively to
antidepressant medication even when not depressed.
The use of pharmacological agents in the treatment of eating disorders is
undergoing increasing exploration and research and will most likely be a
continuing factor in the treatment of a variety of eating disorder
components. However, when reviewing studies on the effectiveness of certain
medications, it is important to keep in mind that not just effectiveness but
comparative effectiveness with other drugs or techniques, as well as side
effects, must be considered.
For example, studies using fluoxetine (Prozac) with bulimia nervosa have
shown a high degree of effectiveness; however, cognitive behavioral therapy
shows a greater degree of effectiveness with fewer side effects and
longer-lasting results! Most experts and treatment programs tend to use a
combination of the two. Additionally, medications that can cause weight
gain, such as clomipramine (Anafranil), used for obsessive-compulsive
disorder, or lithium, used for manic depression, may backfire when the
individual becomes even more restrictive with eating, loses trust, and
becomes noncompliant with the medication.
Other medications, such as naltrexone (Trexan), an opiate antagonist that
eliminates the euphoric effects of opioids used with
addicts and alcoholics
to curb cravings and reduce the beneficial "high" they get from their drugs,
have shown promise in the treatment of eating disorders, especially anorexia
nervosa. Controlled studies are now under way. Medications used to influence
hunger and satiety have been ineffective overall in treating anorexia
nervosa and bulimia nervosa, partly due to side effects.
Finding
a Therapist..
As far as treating cognitive behavioral disturbances, there are certain
drugs that can help improve thought processes and clear thinking. These
include a wide variety, ranging from antianxiety agents, such as
lorazepam (Ativan),
to medicine for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, such as
methylphenidate (Ritalin), to antipsychotic (also known as neuroleptic)
medications for hallucinations or delusional thinking such as
risperdone (Risperdal)
or
haloperidol (Haldol).
Various medications such as neuroleptics or antianxiety agents are used
to reduce sensitivity to stress and resultant anxiety, such as
klonazepam
(Klonopin) and lorazepam (Ativan). These can work well in the short term for
general anxiety, provide immediate relief, and may have some usefulness as
premeal agents to alleviate distress associated with eating. However, these
agents do not successfully treat the core issues of an eating disorder and
are usually best used in conjunction with antidepressants, which also reduce
anxiety and sensitivity to stress, and are the preferred drug treatment.
The role of medication in preventing relapse has become increasingly more
interesting and promising with information from the newest studies,
particularly those involving anorexia nervosa, which will be discussed
below. The following material will summarize the current information on the
use of medication in treating various eating disorders.
Aside from the possible direct beneficial and
adverse effects of medication of any kind, there is the important issue of
what taking medication means or symbolizes to any given individual. The act
of taking mind-altering medication symbolizes.
Despite what many think, anorexia nervosa has so far been shown to be
relatively resistant to treatment with drugs. Many medicines have been tried
for various reasons, with a report here and there about the effectiveness of.
An encouraging study was reported by Dr. Walter Kaye at the International
Association of Eating Disorder Professionals conference in August 1995. The
breakthrough was discovered in a placebo-controlled medication trial of
fluoxetine (Prozac) with anorexics. Prozac, and less so setraline , fluox behavioral and nutritional therapy should be the foundation
of treatment for anorexia nervosa, with the use of fluoxetine and perhaps
even other SSRIs as an adjunct to prevent relapse once weight gain has been
achieved.
How To Recover From Bulimia and Other Eating Disorders
The use of psychotropic agents in treating bulimia nervosa has been much
more promising than in treating anorexia nervosa. Most drug trials have been
with antidepressants, particularly the newer SSRIs, which have shown
significantly greater improvement in binge/purge frequency compared to
placebo. Antidepressant medication doesn't work for everyone; some patients
(about 20 to 33 percent) have complete remission of symptoms, and others
have significant reductions in bingeing and purging behaviors.
The class of antidepressants known as the SSRIs, discussed above, such as
Prozac, Zoloft, and so on, are the newer versionsripty effects of eating disorders,
especially lowered potassium in the body (hypokalemia).
advertisement
pages 1 2 3
By Carolyn
Costin, MA, M.Ed., MFCC - Medical Reference from "The Eating Disorders
Sourcebook"