Highland and Warm Homes – Spiti Homestay Trek
This is a homestay trek that offers a true, raw and tough experience of a Spitian life through trekking
through the Himalayan Plateau, recommended only to those who are looking for a unique yet tough
experience. The real charm of Spiti lies in knowing how the indigenous in Spiti live. An authentic and real experience. This requires physical fitness and endurance as trekking altitude will range between 12000ft to 16000ft.
Tour Details:
No. of Travel Days: 7 nights/ 8 Days
Best Season: July – Sept
Max. Altitude: 5000 m
Accommodation: Homestays
Transportation: MUVs (On actuals)
Price Design:
2 Pax – 18000 INR (Manali – Manali), 10,200 INR (Kaza-Kaza)
4 Pax – 13500 (Manali – Manali), 8000 (Kaza-Kaza)
5-8 – 10,500 (Manali – Manali), 7200 (Kaza-Kaza)
Day: Drive from Manali to Kaza.
We begin the day starting early since it’s a long drive to Langza, we would cross Rohtang Pass,
Chhatru, Batal, Kunzum Pass and Losar to reach Langza. Langza, a region which holds
immense appeal to the history-lover. Extremely rich in fossils of marine life and animals, Langza takes you back to a prehistoric era when Spiti was submerged in the Tethys Sea. Pay tributes at the 1000-year old Lang (temple), and wander around the prehistoric archaeological excavations found here. Spend the night in the comforts of an authentic cosy homestay.
Day 3: Drive to Langza/Acclimatisation at Langza:
DAY 4: Trek from Langza to Komik. Overnight at Komik Homestay (14,800 feet / 3-4 hours)
On the second day of the Spiti Valley homestay trek, the real journey begins as we start with a 3-4-hour moderate trek towards Komik – the highest inhabited village in all of Asia On the way, stop over at Hikkim and send a postcard from the highest post office in the world. Hikkim also just happens to be the highest polling station in the world as well. After our little highs, we continue walking higher and ascend 15,000 feet above sea-level to reach Komik. If the season is right, gorge on freshly picked peas from the farms, run behind a Yak or sit endlessly watching the locals herd their cattle. Stroll up to the Komik Monastery, whose claim to fame is the being the highest monastery in the world with a motorable road. As the night approaches, watch the stars come up so close to you, that you feel like you can almost jump up to catch them. While the mercury outside continues to drop at nightfall, snug into the comforts of a mud home where the temperatures are always comparably warmer. Enjoy a hot, freshly home cooked local meal and call it a day.
DAY 5: Trek from Komik to Demul. Overnight at Demul Homestay (14,435 feet / 4-5 hours)
On the third day of the Spiti Valley Homestay trek, we will head from Komik to Demul on foot, traversing the Chemai Lepcha Pass. After walking through barren mountains in shades of browns, the lush greens of Demul are a refreshing change. Even more remote and cut off from the other villages, Demul is delightful during harvest season. Take a short, traditional Yak safari or learn how to make steaming hot momos with the locals. Soak in the local flavours and vibe and spend the night in the comforts of the homes of the local residents.
DAY 6: Trek from Demul to Lalung. Overnight at Lalung Homestay (12,300 feet / 4-5 hours)
The fourth day of this Spiti Valley homestay trek will take you from the secluded Demul to the village of Lalung. It’s an easy day today as you walk down a steep descent till the Lingti Valley. Literally translating to the “land of God”, Lalung is located at the foot of the Tangmar Mountains. The locals believe their God lives in these mountains and the mountain changes its colours. Delve even deeper into the local faith and legends as you spend a night hearing about more such intriguing stories at your homestay.
DAY 7: Trek from Lalung to Dhankar. Return to Kaza(12,800 feet / 4-5 hours)
On the fifth day of the Spiti Valley homestay trek, you will trek across an easy path towards the former capital of the Spiti Valley, Dhankar. Offering a panoramic view of the valley, Dhankar stands perched above the confluence of the Spiti and Pin river. Legend claims that there must have been a fort here once, but today Dhankar is renowned for its 1200-year old monastery balanced precariously on a rocky precipice. Slowly start acclimatising back into the “normal” world as you drive away from your last trekking point. We return to Kaza to rest
Day 8: Kaza – Manali
The last leg of the journey when we arrive at Manali post a drive of 8 hours from Chandratal
crossing Batal, Chhatru and Rohtang Pass. The evening would be /Kaza-Kaza self-travel
All camp meals
All accommodation during the trek
- All accommodation from Manali-Manali/Kaza – Kaza in all homestays with all meals
-.