Find a Trip
or
During a week in Santa Fe, New Mexico, delve into the ever-expanding world of digital storytelling and learn to get the most out of your camera. Whether you want to document your travel adventures or capture family moments at home, hone your ability to tell powerful stories through video. With the vibrant landscapes and cultures of historic Santa Fe as your inspiration, work in small teams to find, shoot, and edit a short video.
A National Geographic photographer and filmmaker leads daily talks and demonstrations covering story selection and development, equipment, audio recording options, and basic sequencing and editing skills. Each day, head into the field to gather video footage and the sounds and still images to enrich your narrative.
This workshop is designed for amateur photographers and filmmakers with a solid understanding of their digital cameras. A digital camera that shoots HD video is required for this workshop.*
Arrive in Santa Fe and settle into the adobe-style Inn & Spa at Loretto, or stay at accommodations of your choice. Gather for a reception and dinner with your instructors and fellow visual storytellers.Inn and Spa at Loretto (D)
This morning, learn how a National Geographic video piece is conceived, produced, and edited, with a presentation by our expert, who will also discuss digital storytelling fundamentals. After lunch, learn techniques for shooting DSLR video and various options for recording sound. Then divide into small teams and venture into Santa Fe for your first assignment: an interview. With its Spanish, Native American, and Wild West flavors, Santa Fe offers countless fascinating subjects. Spend the rest of the day recording your video portrait.Inn and Spa at Loretto (B,L)
After a morning presentation on editing essentials, edit the interview you recorded yesterday using appropriate software (Adobe Premiere Pro). This afternoon, discuss story development and collaborate with your team to choose a story idea to produce over the next several days. Perhaps you will document a local artist carving traditional santos, a day in the life a retired rodeo clown, or the 20-year history of the fajitas cart on the Plaza. Conceptualize and research your idea, then practice with your equipment for tomorrow’s shoot.Inn and Spa at Loretto (B,L)
Today is devoted to shooting your story. Work on location with your team to record interviews, ambient sounds, and narration. Capture additional stills and video around Santa Fe to enrich your narrative. This evening, gather with your instructors to review the day’s footage and make plans for final shooting tomorrow.Inn and Spa at Loretto (B,L)
This morning, continue shooting video and recording audio for your story, then return to the classroom in time for lunch. Spend the afternoon reviewing your footage and developing strategies for integrating it into a cohesive narrative. Attend a presentation by your instructors on editing techniques in preparation for the postproduction phase.Inn and Spa at Loretto (B,L)
Collaborate with your team on the final editing of sound and video. Review a rough cut with your instructors and utilize their feedback to craft a succinct, compelling story. Tonight, gather for a festive farewell dinner.Inn and Spa at Loretto (B,L,D)
This morning, gather for an exciting screening of the week’s stories and a final critique and recap with your instructors. The workshop ends at noon.
(B)
*Participants may borrow a Nikon DSLR camera that shoots video for the duration of the workshop.
Photo Workshop: Santa Fe
Give the Gift of a National Geographic Photography Workshop
This expedition is not currently being offered.
This workshop is designed for amateur photographers and filmmakers with a solid understanding of their digital cameras. A digital camera that shoots HD video is required for this workshop.
Participants may borrow a Nikon DSLR camera that shoots video for the duration of the workshop.
Participants will need their own transportation during the week in order to drive to daily classroom sessions and individual assignment locations.
RequestA Catalog