The Way to Sturdy Flooring
Cumuru. Jatoba. Ipe. Afromosia. Sapele. Beautiful, durable and timeless, these species — and others grown locally and internationally — are now available as engineered hardwood from Hawaii Hardwood Flooring in Honolulu.
“Our new lines of flooring are factory-direct, with a four-millimeter wear layer on top of an engineered core,” said company president Chris Brenna. “They’re dried and manufactured for Hawaii’s unique climate.”
The line of exotics also includes acacia, Santos ma-hogany, tigerwood and Burma teak. The Hawaiian line features woods that have been grown and milled on the Big Island, like koa, ohia, mango, Norfolk pine, alder, monkey-pod, macadamia nut and Silver-oak.
With more than 30 years of experience, the company’s three hardwood installation crews and three sanding and finishing teams can make the flooring process just about effortless, and mostly dust-free, for their customers. “We’ve invested quite a lot on equipment and filters to help keep the dust and mess down,” said Brenna. “We also offer unfinished lines in most of these products, for those who want to do it ‘old-school.'”
The Hawaiian and exotic lines are 60-year floors, which means they can be sanded and refinished three times over the expected life of the floor. Each refinishing will last about 20 years under normal conditions.
The flooring market can be competitive, especially in Honolulu, but Brenna says Hawaii Hardwood Flooring has several advantages over other local companies. “We offer 2-year guarantees on our labor, and a 25-year guarantee on any Hawaii hardwood factory-direct products,” he explained. “We do four coats of finish. Most other local companies only do three. We offer free curbside delivery. And we will beat or match any price on a flooring package as long as it’s from a licensed contractor or distributor, and the service or product is similar to ours.”
Launched in 1989, Hawaii Hardwood Flooring has been at its Kalihi location for four years, and offers a wide selection of residential flooring options that include vinyl, stone, carpet and tile, in addition to strip, plank and parquet floors that come in either solid or engineered wood. The company also has installed flooring in commercial locations all over Hawaii, including the Kahala Hotel & Resort, Hilton Hawaiian Village and the University of Hawaii on Oahu, as well as the
Lodge at Koele on Lanai and the Ritz-Carlton on Maui.
According to Brenna, Hawaii Hardwood Flooring offers a different yet special deal each month. (See coupon below.)
“This month, we’re offering a free iPad 2 when purchasing any 1,000-square-foot Hardwood Flooring package,” he said.
contact // 842-7755
address // 306 Kalihi St.