Jewelry is something you cannot fully appreciate without taking a closer look. Catalogs, flyers, TV commercials etc. are fine but when it comes to fully appreciating the beauty of jewelry and gems, you have to see them physically and be able to touch them. JOGS International Exhibits organizes the international jewelry show, which is the best place to browse and shop for bejeweled accessories. JOGS’ international gem show displays amazing collections of jewelry and gems. There is silver, pearl, sterling silver, gold, white gold, diamond, wholesale jewelry beads, and mineral jewelries to choose from. From stately jewelry to party jewelry, from tribal ornaments to daily wear trinkets – everything is available in our jewelry trade shows and there is something for every budget.
This Year’s Trends
Before going to the JOGS international jewelry show, you should know that this year, the world of jewelries is being ruled by estate and antique jewelry. Simply put, the old fashion is new again. Heavy, ornate designs are “in”. So, why go for something contemporary when you can stand out wearing an antique ornament?
There Is More to Gems than Beauty
Gemstones look fantastic but they have more to them than just beauty. They are often divided into two categories namely precious and semi-precious. Every gemstone has properties like the power to influence the health and fortune of a person. Wearing gems can help treat a physical ailment. Expert gemstone cutters visit our international gem show with their own collection and sometimes with jewelry manufacturers. You can meet and interact with them, take a good look at their work and ask for suggestions as to which gem would suit you best. You can also witness the launch of a new gemstone.
Why You Must Attend
Under one roof, you will be able to browse collections from all over the world, interact with designers, buy raw materials such as wholesale jewelry beads and even learn jewelry making. These prospects are exciting for someone who loves ornaments. In no jewelry boutique will you find such a diverse collection that you will find in our jewelry trade shows. From designers to manufacturers to wholesalers – everyone related to creating, packaging and selling jewelry attends the JOGS International Jewelry Show.
To book your tickets, or to make an inquiry, contact us now.