Great 9.8/10
Total of people that favorited this listing
Explore and unfold your relationships through yoga and other various techniques at this relaxing yoga retreat in Sardinia. You will enjoy your time to reconnect with your partner as you strengthen your relationship through enhanced trust and intimacy. Join this amazing retreat to improve your relationship and develop a sense of well-being and harmony!
During this retreat, you will be staying at the Galanias hotel. The hotel is a peaceful, idyllic place to wind down and relax and is ideal for couples in search of a sanctuary. It is situated four kilometers from the town of Barisardo and 600 meters from the sea and the beach. The hotel is comprised of three main buildings: in two of them, there are 33 rooms and in the main buildings, there are 10 superior rooms.
The hotel has a pool, a restaurant, a bar, and a bespoke yoga shala for group activities. The hotel also has a small gym and additional massage treatments by the hotel therapist available by appointment through reception. All rooms are well equipped and decorated with hand-made furniture, created by local craftsmen.
Every room has an independent entrance, air conditioning, mini bar, bathroom with shower, hairdryer, TV, and a safe. There is also a suite with open loft and non-smoking rooms. There are two types of room to choose for the retreat which is the garden room and the superior room. Both rooms are private and can accommodate two persons.
The program for the retreat is all about “good vibrations”. You will be using sound as partners, as a group, and as a private treatment for individual couples. You will use various techniques and musical instruments, such as crystal and Tibetan singing bowls, gong, didgeridoo, and your own voices working in a group. You will also experience how to use sound on your own partner as a relaxation and healing technique.
As part of the program, you will engage in different yoga practices with your partners to enhance trust and intimacy. There will be a time that you will work individually using mindful Hatha yoga to better connect with your own bodies and develop a sense of well-being and harmony. It will not only benefit you as an individual but also improves your relationships with others around you.
Additionally, you will learn some useful mindfulness practices and tools that will help you in all aspects of life, but especially in your relationships with yourselves and those closest to you, learning to be more accepting and compassionate. Mindfulness practices can help you to generate forgiveness and gratitude, as well as recognizing your own behavior patterns in order to be able to live life with increased emotional intelligence.
This retreat is not just for couples. It is suitable for anybody who wants to create a better relationship with other important people in his or her life, whether that is a spouse, life partner, parent, sibling, close friend, or other important people.
The final itinerary is set by the retreat leaders and can be subject to change. The itinerary will give you an idea of what to expect during this retreat.
On day one, there will be a Partner yoga class in the morning followed by an afternoon session of pranayama, mindfulness, and yoga Nidra class.
On day two, there will be a session of morning sound healing with vibroacoustic massage. In the afternoon, a session of mindful movement, mindfulness, and yoga Nidra will be conducted.
There will be a Partner yoga class in the morning followed by an afternoon session of group mantra, yoga Nidra, and the harmonic sound bath.
On day four, you can take a day off to relax, go for excursions, or explore the area.
There will be a morning sound healing with a vibroacoustic massage followed by an afternoon session of mindful movement, mindfulness, and yoga Nidra class.
On day six, you will experience a morning dynamic group exercises with yoga and vibroacoustic massage followed by the afternoon retreat closing ceremony with pranava aum, group mantra, and yoga Nidra..
Michela
Michela studied art and theater in Italy and England. She also studied holistic therapies and Thai massage in Thailand, as well as Reiki, yoga, and meditation in Spain. She has traveled through more than 30 countries around the world over four continents. She is a Reiki master, massage therapist, and a yoga teacher.
Ignacio
Ignacio has traveled through more than 30 countries around the world. He has lived in London and Florence, and is currently residing in Barcelona. He is a musician, a healer, and a yogi. He plays guitar, Australian didgeridoo, African berimbau, Tibetan bowls, quartz bowls, Chinese gong, drum, and different types of percussion instruments.
This retreat will take place in Ogliastra, Italy. Ogliastra is an area of Sardinia, which is often referred to as the ‘island within an island’. The island offers an abundance of pleasures. It is sheltered away from the overcrowded tourist areas like Costa Smeralda, Olbia, Alghero, and Cagliari. 10 kilometers on the beach without interruption.
You will be served buffet breakfast and dinner meals every day during the retreat. At the Galanias hotel, you can dine by the pool with a glass of locally produced wine while enjoying a range of Mediterranean dishes prepared each day by the chef. Please inform Yoga in Sardinia if you have any special dietary requirements or restrictions.
You can be involved in many exciting activities available locally from the scenic train journeys to boat trips, diving, kayaking, cycling, rock climbing, and horse riding. You can also visit the local beautiful nature such as waterfalls, caves, archaeological sites, and plenty of stunning beaches. The hotel can organize excursions for you during the retreat, including transfers to the port.
You can book additional massage sessions at the hotel during the retreat.
Please book your flight to arrive at Cagliari Elmas Airport (CAG). Transfer from and to this airport is available upon request. The hotel can arrange transfers for you at an additional cost or you can hire a car.
There are bus services by ARST to the local town of Bari Sardo. However, there may be changes involved and the journey will take some time.