White Light Festival 2010.11.09 - Featuring Kjartan Sveinsson + Jónsi & Alex
~ NEW! Final Version (stunning quality)- 23.11.2010
Absolutely stunning final version enjoying the benefits of having had some post concert mixing & mastering from the wonderful people @ WXQR Radio This is without exception the best live recording I have heard for a long time. Its clear they spent a lot of time and expertise on this incredible night of World Première's.
Archive Mastered Version: (All of this will eventually be re-uploaded to Victoryroselossless)
Kjartan Sveinsson - Cage A Swallow Can't you, But You Can't Swallow A Cage - World Permiére
Kjartan Sveinsson - Credo (I Believe) - World Permiére
Jónsi & Alex - Riceboy Sleeps Live - World Permiére
[MF]
~ Cage A Swallow FLAC
~ Credo FLAC
~ Riceboy -
~ Riceboy - Torrent (thanks Adam)
NB: The Riceboy Sleeps Mp3 is one track but the Flac version has the tracks split
Webcast:
(complete but not as good quality as the above)
Set List:
1. Preamble with John Schaefer
2. 'In Hyrdraulis' - The Hilliard Assembly
3. 'Cage A Swallow Can't You, But You Can't Swallow A Cage (World Première) - Kjartan Sveinsson
4. 'Credo (I Believe) (World Premiére) - Kjartan Sveinsson
5. Interview with Conductor Jeffery Milarsky
6. Interview with Jónsi & Alex
7. Selections from 'Riceboy Sleeps' (World Première) - Jónsi & Alex
27 comments:
Just wanted to let you know that your work is SO appreciated. I'm really glad and grateful to have these - especially the Jonsi and Alex. Thanks!!
i wonder when the official recording will be available in the "q2" website
So many thank yous for this. I'm so glad to hear what's become of this.
Nathan
it is available to stream this record from the web. but i wonder, is the quality of the sound is better than you have posted here? What do others think ?
You'll find this latest post exceptional. The 1st post was off a stream, the quality which was adequate at best. In general though, you never need be concerned with quality here... (I'll always let you know the quality) There are some advantages in being a sound engineer! but by all means try for yourself and let us know your thoughts :)
Thank you so much for this!
In the "Archive Mastered Version" the link to "Credo FLAC" is the same as "[MF] Download MP3"
Basically the Credo FLAC download is missing..
Heavenly!
Sorry Tristan, Credo FLAC is now...Credo FLAC :)
Thanks for letting me know
Strangely enough, the official show program seems to get the order of the Riceboy Sleeps performance wrong:
It should be:
Sleeping Giant
Happiness
Indian Summer
Daniell in the Sea
Atlas Song
Boy 1904
I'm a geek :)
I am currently having troubles with downloading the Part 2 of the J&A set. Mediafire is 'processing my download request' and won't let me go any further. I've tried it on 2 different browsers, so I'll try again tomorrow and see if it works.
Same for me Amanda, sometimes the servers a particular file gets uploaded to go down for a while, its not un-common. If no joy by tonight I'll upload a fresh one. Thanks for letting me know :)
Is there any other way to download through torrent?
I'm not a Demonoid member, so registration is open only to invitation codes.
Cheers
Guimo, the torrent is the same file as the riceboy mp3 above :)
The files are gone!
Any other place to download these masterworks?
Same with the other anon, the files are gone. I've looked everywhere to find the tracks and all the tracks come back here. Please, please reupload
sorry folks - everything is being re-uploaded to the victoryroselossless site
This site is now inactive. I will upload these for you though x
the part 1 and the part 2 of the MF links are the same!
(sorry for my sucking english) and thx!!
Sorry about that
Links updated - Flac & MP3! :D
Just a note- parts 1 and 2 for the Riceboy Sleeps Flac appear to be the same.
Links fixed for flac riceboy...so