Novelty Hill Januik Winery provided this new Mr. and Mrs. the perfect place to host their perfect fall fête. Just perfect. And when such a gorgeous venue is taken to the next level with the gorgeous floral design of Mum Floral Design - it all makes for a to die for affair. Angela & Evan Photography captured every moment so we could spend the afternoon getting inspired by all the pretty, and you can see it all in the full gallery of images!
From the Bride... John and I met at a friend's wedding in September 2007, where John was a groomsman. He was so adorable in his tux that I could not resist asking him to dance. Nearly four years later, John proposed on the balcony of the Empress Hotel in Victoria, B.C, and of course, I said “yes.” On one of our early dates John and I went wine tasting in Woodinville, Washington, and happened to witness the arrival of a wedding party at Novelty Hill Januik Winery. John remembers saying, “Maybe one day we’ll get married here.” To which I, trying not to tip my hand too early, replied, “No way.” But when the time came to pick a venue, Novelty Hill Januik was the perfect location. Not only was it in Woodinville, where John grew up, and just a few miles from Seattle where I grew up, but it reminded us of all the fun times we had already shared ... oh, and the wine is really tasty! With the indispensable help of Novelty Hill’s wedding coordinator Emily Pollock, we set about organizing a ceremony and reception that was laid-back but highlighted the modern beauty and intimacy of the winery. The winery’s modern but warm feel were the inspiration for the day. All of the stationery was ordered through Costco and then embellished by me and my mom. We wrapped the raised print pocket fold invitations with a belly band of yellow and gold paper and then tied them with blue satin ribbon. We really wanted our guests to feel like they were opening a present when the invitation arrived.
I had always dreamed of a fall wedding, and Novelty Hill’s garden area, lined with trees and leaves changing color, really made the day feel like fall. All I had to say to Meghan Stoller of Mum Floral Design was ”I love succulents,” and Meghan went about creating some of the most beautiful bouquets and arrangements I have ever seen. She was even able to incorporate a handkerchief, given to John at his birth, and my grandmother’s rosary into the handle of the my bouquet. To top off her attention to detail, Meghan located the paper my mom and I had used on the invitations and wrapped it around the boxes the flower girls carried down the aisle. The ceremony was performed by Judge Tabor, one of my former bosses and mentor. His ceremony brought everyone to tears — several times. Having someone so dear perform the ceremony, while being surrounded by our friends and family, really made the day special and focused on our expression of love and commitment to each other.
After the ceremony, guests enjoyed a wine and tray-passed hors d'oeuvres period before the dinner buffet was opened, where they were served a delicious meal of locally-sourced vegetables, salmon, and beef tenderloin. For a late night snack, the kitchen re-opened and guests were served wood-fired pizzas. We wanted our guests to spread out and mingle, so we decided to forgo place cards and instead decided to use a mix of small, large and tall tables. We used the mantel above the open fireplace to display photographs of our family members who could not join us. And instead of a guest book, we asked our guests to sign their names to a wedding tree, which we plan to hang in our entry way. John is a huge Star Wars fan. During the planning process he would frequently ask, “When do we get the Leia and Han cake toppers?” So I knew he would be floored when he saw the Millennium Falcon groom's cake I ordered. Mike’s Amazing Cake’s did not disappoint. Not only was the Millennium Falcon’s detail spot on (reportedly the only cake to make the Kessel Run in under 12 parsecs), the chocolate with salted caramel filled cake was delicious. Angela and Evan, married photographers, captured every detail and moment of the day to perfection. People danced until the very end of the night, and when we finally left the reception, we knew that this had been our perfect day.
Wedding Photography: Angela & Evan Photography / Wedding Venue + Catering: Novelty Hill Januik Winery in Woodinville, Washington / Day of Wedding Coordination: Emily Pollock of Novelty Hill Januik Winery / Floral Design: Meghan Stoller of Mum Floral Design / Officiant: Judge Gary Tabor / Marriage Certificate Calligraphy: Pascale Collins (pascalligraphy@gmail.com) / Wedding Invitations: DIY by the Bride & Her Mother via Costco / Wedding Cake: New Renaissance Cakes / Groom's Cake: Mike’s Amazing Cakes / Entertainment: DJ DK of Pro DJs / Guest Book: Absinthe Custom Print / Cafe Lights: Blue Danube Productions / Chair Rentals: AA Party Rentals / Transportation: The Westin Bellvue / Umbrella Rentals: Bella Umbrella / Wedding Dress: Vera Wang via Marcella’s La Boutique / Bride’s Shoes: Christian Louboutin / Bride’s Pearls: Mikimoto / Bride's Wedding Band: Guy Mamiya Custom Jewelers / Bridesmaids’ Dresses: J.Crew / Hair + Makeup: Gene Juarez / Bridesmaids' + Flower Girl Belts: DIY by the Bride / Bridesmaids' Gifts: Tiffany & Co. / Men’s Tuxedos: Men’s Wearhouse / Groom's Wedding Band: Ben Bridge / Rehearsal Dinner: Willows Run Golf Course