Brazilian peanut processor Brumau courts European markets
Maurico Martani, sales director of Ostinato, Brumau's sales office, told BakeryandSnacks at Snackex, held in Vienna, Austria, in June, that Brumau is also the only company in Brazil that operates in the two core peanut areas.
“The company processes crude and refined peanut oils and produces edible raw and blanched peanuts,” he said.
Shelling nuts
Brumau was founded by Sergio and Gilberto Martani in 1989 located in the state of São Paulo in Brazil, primarily to export crude peanut oil to refineries.
It has subsequently made substantial investments to expand its operations.
In 2009, the company opened a peanut shelling unit in Taquaritinga and added a blanching unit at the site in 2012.
Last year, it opened another plant in Rancharia, doubling its edible oil production capacity, as well as a new storage facility in Tupã; and acquired a peanut processing plant in Marilia in February 2017.
Today, the company has six HACCP-, GMP- and FS22000-certified production units located around São Paulo, producing around 20,000 MT of edible raw peanuts, 7,000 MT of blanched peanuts, and 26,900 MT of crude peanut oil annually.
However, according to said Elaine Guerra, Ostinato's sales and marketing manager, the company's products are currently only exported.
"We do not sell them in the domestic market, yet," she said, noting that Brumau has a new plan for the second half of the year "to launch a refined peanut oil on the domestic market".
Investing in expansion
Martani added that Brumau’s expansion plan has not slowed down and the company is continuing its push into new markets.
It intends to increase its peanut capacity by 15,000 MT each year from 2017 to 2020, expanding its peanut growing zones into other areas of the São Paolo state, as well the Tocatins and Mato Grosso states.
Next year, it will invest in new crushing units and peanut processing plants near the new zones, as well as build additional warehouses, increasing storage capacity to 12,500 tons of inshells at both the Taquaritinga and Marilia facilities.
“Our goal is to increase the penetration in the European market, once Brumau has completed its significant investments in the manufacturing area to better serve this market,” said Guerra.
Brumau's own market research has identified growth drivers in the edible nuts market:
- Increase in per capita food expenditures as income raises and middle class expands
- Consumer’s growing preference for healthy, high protein and natural based foods
- Shift in eating habits with out-of-home consumption, which benefits light and convenient meals
- Growing consumption of snacks and confectionery
- Growing demand for plant-based proteins