IDC Energy Insights Evaluates Worldwide Professional Service Firms in Oil & Gas in New IDC MarketScape
26 Jun 2014
Majors and super-majors insist on value; trusted service providers must have oil and gas subject matter expertise
Framingham, MA – June 26, 2014 – IDC Energy Insights announced today the availability of a new IDC MarketScape report intended to provide oil and gas companies with insight into the current capabilities and future strategies of professional service firms and guidance on how to approach building a stable of trusted service providers. The new study, “Worldwide Professional Service Firms in Oil and Gas,” (Document # EI249425) provides a vendor assessment of providers offering professional services to the Oil and Gas industry through the IDC MarketScape model. Vendors evaluated in this report include: Accenture, Capgemini, CGI, Deloitte, IBM, Infosys, KPMG, L&T Infotech, PwC, TCS, Tech Mahindra and Wipro.
- ClicktoTweet, "#IDCEnergyInsights Evaluates Worldwide Professional Service Firms in #Oil&Gas in New #IDCMarketScape -Majors & super-majors insist on #value"
A new cost consciousness has oil and gas companies looking to professional services firms to help them reduce costs. Even leaders that have the strongest asset bases know that they need to make changes in order to maintain position, but are not willing to sacrifice quality. The majors and super-majors continue to insist on value, and have set the bar high for their service providers to have oil and gas subject matter expertise for high value projects and on-going services. National oil companies look for their professional service providers to use local partners and develop local talent. According to the report, leaders in professional services in oil and gas are defined by a:
- Commitment to the oil and gas industry that is backed at the executive level of their companies.
- Set of well-developed solutions that are specific to oil and gas;
- Stable of experts in oil and gas industry disciplines and extensive experience working in oil and gas business-related IT;
- Strong set of disciplines to enable the global workforce at the firm to access a common set of best practices;
- Demonstrated capabilities in incorporating Third Platform technologies into their services
To help oil and gas companies evaluate professional service firms, IDC Energy Insights provides the following recommendations to guide buying decisions:
- Determine which attributes are most important in project-related initiatives and in on-going services. Depending on the assignment, the level of importance will vary. Attributes that are consistently important are security and protection of information and excellence in meeting service level agreements and timelines.
- Look for vendors that are able to deliver repeatable solutions, but still accommodate unique requirements. Ask to understand what commitment the service provider has made to investing in "productizing the solution".
- Ask vendors to demonstrate how they have helped their customers reduce the cost of IT. Cloud-based services are one way to achieve cost reduction and reduce capital investment. In addition, vendors should be able to help automate processes or provide templates to speed implementation.
Jill Feblowitz, IDC Energy Insights Vice President, Oil & Gas, and author of the report notes, “Successful professional service firms have programs in place that support a multipronged strategy to contribute to the overall development of SMEs and oil and gas IT experts. A demonstrated ability to grow local expertise to leadership positions will help meet local requirements and provide a career path for employees that will help reduce turnover. For oil and gas companies, the selection will be primarily based on what these firms can do to improve performance, achieve IT-enabled business benefits and reduce costs. For this industry that means speeding time to first oil, mitigating drilling risk, optimizing production, adapting to new delivery channels, hedging risks, leveraging opportunities in the commodities market, preventing accidents, streamlining refining and serving the retail customer.”
This. Emphasis is IT-related over tax or straight strategy advisory. As the fastest growing and largest area of investment, upstream is emphasized; midstream, refining and retail are also considered.ill Feblowitz,.
Companies Covered:
Accenture Plc, Infosys Limited, KPMG International, Larsen & Toubro Limited, IBM, Tech Mahindra Limited, Capgemini S.A., Tata Consultancy Services Limited, Wipro Limited, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Deloitte, CGI Group Inc.
Regions Covered:
Topics Covered:
Cloud services, IT consulting services, Systems integration services
Vertical Markets:
Energy, Smart oil and gas, Smart utilities
ContactFor more information, contact:
Heather Hargraves
hhargraves@idc.com
508-935-4162
Sarah Murray
sarah@attunecommunications.com
781-378-2674
