Cricket
UK view: Stuart Broad and James Anderson masterclass produces six Indian ducks
- From: FOX SPORTS
- August 08, 2014
SIX ducks and two horses made life a bit of a pigsty for India on day one of the fourth Test at Old Trafford.
Animals were the theme of the day in the UK press after Stuart Broad and James Anderson combined to roll India for 152 before tea, with England going to stumps trailing by just 39 runs for the loss of three wickets.
With half a dozen Indian batsmen dismissed without scoring a run under cloudy Manchester skies, the Daily Mail’s Paul Newman couldn’t resist this obvious analogy.
“It was perfect weather for ducks on Thursday — a Test record six in one innings, in fact.”
INDIA ROLLED BY BROAD BRILLIANCE
Murali Vijay was the first of six batsmen to be out for a duck on day one. Source: AFP
While the tourists’ batting was at times lamentable, high praise deserved to be dished out to England’s dynamic pace duo — especially in light of their disappointing performances just a few of weeks ago.
“It was Anderson and Broad who squandered perfect bowling conditions on the first morning at Lord’s where England went on to crash to a second Test defeat,” Newman wrote.
“Yet since then the senior pair have displayed class and character to hit back at the Ageas Bowl and then gloriously on Thursday when, particularly in the first hour, they bowled with a pace, hostility and skill that was almost unplayable.
“…Anderson’s aggressive approach was still under the microscope here.
Cook had told him to carry on cursing but Anderson was noticeably quieter, even after trapping Jadeja with the perfect inswinger to the left-hander after setting him up with three outswingers.
“Exceptional, highly skilled bowling.”
Stuart Broad celebrates after dismissing No.11 Pankaj Singh for a duck. Source: AFP
Over at The Telegraph, veteran cricket writer Scyld Berry shunned the avian analogy in favour of an equine theme.
“In the first half of this summer Alastair Cook was said to have a four-man pace attack at his command,” Berry wrote. “But all too often England’s pace bowlers gave the impression of horses on the prairie, running wildly in all directions and delighting in their freedom.
“Now they are back in harness, England look a team again.
“James Anderson and Stuart Broad are England’s two leading thoroughbreds. They trotted into the Old Trafford ring with their livery polished, plumes high and, above all, saddled — so that their captain could ride them.”
At this point, Berry might have wondered if he had pushed the metaphor a bit too far, but he couldn’t resist flogging a dead horse.
England's thoroughbreds James Anderson (L) and Stuart Broad. Source: AP
.”
Moving away from the farm and on to strictly cricketing matters, former England skipper Michael Vaughan used his Telegraph column to warn against reading too much into India’s capitulation.
.”
While the credit heading Broad and Anderson’s way was no doubt deserved, The Mirror’s Dean Wilson believes India captain M.S. Dhoni can shoulder some of the blame after he decided to bowl first.
M.S. Dhoni was India’s best batsman but he won’t look back on the day fondly. Source: AP
“After ploughing on with his crusade against Anderson off the field, MS Dhoni made another poor -decision in this series by choosing to bat first under leaden skies,” Wilson wrote.
“The ball was swinging, and with the pitch offering pace, carry and bounce, Anderson and Broad were not going to let it go to waste this time.”
Broad himself admitted he had the classic English weather to thank for creating conditions tailor-made for swing bowling, but couldn’t help tooting his own horn a little bit as well.
““We got lucky with the overheads as it got cloudy,” Broad told The Sun. “We didn’t get lucky with the skill we produced, though — I swung it nicely.”
We think what he’s trying to say is that he didn’t bowl like a donkey.Originally published as UK view: two horses create six ducks
Have your say