Happy New Year’s Eve everyone!
Tonight I am raising a glass to YOU! All of my loyal readers. Thank you for reading the blog, cooking my recipes, and following along on our crazy farming adventure. You all keep me inspired to continue documenting our life and I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Cheers to a happy and healthy 2013!
Here are my favorite posts from 2012 enjoy!
2. Confessions of an organic farmer
Happy New Year everyone!
Cheers!
Advertisements
Happy New Year to the three of you!
Trying your root vegetable pie tonight with corn meal crust! I love reading your blog and witnessing your sweet relationship with Taylor and Henry. You are an inspiration and add hope, light and joy to my life.
Pam
Happy 2013 to you, Taylor and Henry!! I’m sure it will be a year packed with adventure and fun, and many “firsts”!!! Good-bye to this year, and BRING ON THE NEXT!!!
Happy New Year to you too. Looking forward to 2013 and amazing things from Tumbleweed Farms!
Love reading your posts, seeing the pics and trying the recipes! All good things in 2013 to you and those you love!
Happy new year! Your granola recipe truly is the best.
great round up! happy new year!
May your new year in Oregon be happy, healthy and full of veggies !
Happy New Year Mrs. Mcclain! XO
Happy 2013!! You guys have had an amazing year moving cross country and starting new 🙂 can’t wait to keep following along and maybe even getting to stop by your farmers market stand in the future in Hood River (fingers crossed!!).
you too! and swing by hood river anytime! we would love to meet you!
Good morning, and Happy New Year to you – Andrea, Taylor and Henry!
Thank you so much for sharing your story. Thank you for educating us on running a farm, and thanks for inspiring us to appreciate and value the important work of farming.
Thank you for giving Henry such a good home, and thanks for reminding folks that rescue animals can be wonderful family members.
May 2013 be a happy, healthy and prosperous year for you, and for all family farmers!
Thank you for such a wonderful comment Beth. Made my day!
Happy new year chica! You are adorable to the max. I had no idea you ran Boston! I ran it in 2011…and I can’t say I ever really want to run it again. But I’m glad I did it once!
You sure know how to make a girl feel good! Glad we share the same feelings on Boston! I’m dying to run NYC.
Happy New Year! I just wanted to come out of the woodwork and say yours is one of the favorite blogs I discovered in 2012 and I think you’re just the coolest & bravest and hope 2013 is full of good things. I’ll be reading along – and cooking your recipes! Thanks for sharing your exciting year.