In the past this would have left me ridden with guilt. Erasing planned mileage off my schedule always made me cringe and think I was failing. Not strong enough or dedicated enough. Maybe I was just too busy or tired to feel bad this time but it didn't bother me in the least. Thursday, the day I would normally run I didn't even think about exercise. To combat the possibility of feeling like a fatty I ate really well all day long. Chocolate milk, coffee, and peanut butter toast for breakfast, salmon, cauliflower, and pasta for lunch, and the usual yogurt, apple, banana, and carrots for snacks. Did I mention I was wearing high heels for the first time in two months and my calves were not painfully tight by the end of the day?
The fundraising event with Lilly Pulitzer and Beth Dunn was better than I could have asked for. It was probably the most fun I have had raising money for Team Challenge. I even made a few purchases to add to my Lilly collection.
Today I feel great. Rested and ready for my long run tomorrow, no pain or discomfort AT ALL what-so-ever *knock on wood*. The thing I am coming to realize in life is that as long as you do the right thing 95% of the time you shouldn't be so hard on yourself if you have to change things around, skip a workout, or want to eat a cookie. The important thing is to always be happy, make time for everything. If I was strict on my running schedule I would have missed out on a fabulous event. Or worse I would have been that awful person who makes scheduling an event impossible due to unavailability.
I think one of the worst feelings going into a long run is not being rested. Feeling like I have to go to sleep at 8pm in order to even function for a 8am run. So far the summer is off to a great start. Or the spring is coming to a good end. Either way I am looking forward to 11 miles tomorrow. Who knows what I'm going to learn from Coach Jack this time.
xx Sara
1 comment:
i used to be the same way, feeling guilty when i missed or skipped a workout. once in a while i even still do, but it's so great to look at things like you did. it's all about the big picture!