I meant to post this on 4/8/17.
Before I start let me give a background of myself. I bought GMod in 2014 and I saw YouTube videos of this gamemode called GMod Tower. I thought it looked super cool so I downloaded the addons and connected. Instantly I was in love with it. I met many people, played many games, and designed my condo. A couple years after, I hear about the reveal of Lobby 2. At this point I freaked out. When it was released I played so much. I got my friends to join me and we would play for hours. The next spring, my computer broke, and at this time the Kickstarter/Indiegogo was released and I sadly missed it and I will never be able to forgive myself for missing it. I ended up buying a prebuilt (that sucked really bad) and I was able to play GMTower with my friends again, at 30fps. Then if Feburary, I see the Steam reveal. At this point I was hyped. After long months of waiting, it was released. I bought the game immediately, but there was a file error (if anyone remembers that), so I went back on GMTower. It was so laggy from so much activity that I disconnected and waited for the file fix for Tower Unite. When it was fixed, I downloaded the game and immediately played virus with many and it was great. Months go by, and in August of 2016, I built my new PC with literally 3 things in mind, the ability to run GTA V at high+ graphics, run Overwatch at Epic, and Tower Unite at all TURBO. I was finally able to play the game and it was amazing. Another little funny thing that happened was in February of 2017, my favorite Twitch streamers, JoshOG and Summit1G, bought Tower Unite, with their other two friends WitWix and Dyrus. I got to play with them and I beat Summit and JoshOG in bowling. That was so funny to me.
That's pretty much my story!
Thanks for reading and thank you developers for all your time on this amazing game.
I know this is late from the games 1 year anniversary, but I didn't want this to go to waste.
I would also like to thank the community. You guys are amazing and I love playing with you all.
From,VinTheHero
I just bought the game yesterday, though I played GMOD tower alone time ago and this is a blast! Hope to see you in-game one day and grats on the victory! Hope you keep having fun! ;p
Yo! Hope to see you too! Enjoy your stay at Tower Unite!