Genealogy and Local History
The Lewiston Public Library is a valuable resource for the local community and for those at large interested in researching family history and local Niagara County history. Visitors are welcome to view materials located within our Jon F. Popkey Genealogy Room and our Frieda C. Bourgon Local History Room during normal business hours. Check for class offerings in our monthly adult calendar.
Check for local area records and history at our genealogy blog:
Click below to make images larger.
Hours of Operation
Patrons may access the Genealogy Room and the Local History Room during regular library hours. For special assistance please make an appointment at 754-4720 or email Michelle Kratts at lewgen@nioga.org
The Dead Beats Society
The Dead Beats Society was founded in 2008 as a group of genealogy volunteers at the Lewiston Public Library. Volunteers have worked on various local project including digitizing local Niagara area obituaries. The Dead Beats usually meet each month.
The Genealogy Genies
The Genealogy Genies are happy to help you break down those brick walls. Our newly formed group of “genies” have extensive experience researching family histories. “No matter where you are in the country or the world, send us your most troublesome ones and we will try and figure them out for you. ” All responses will be emailed unless postage is prepaid.
Please email Genealogy Genies at:
genealogygenies@gmail.com
Affiliate Library
The Lewiston Public Library is now an affiliate library with FamilySearch. You may order any of the billions of rolls of microfilm and microfiche from and have them sent to the Lewiston Public Library where you may view them. There is a minimal shipping fee.
Lewiston Library Expands Genealogy Resources
How to order microfilm from FamilySearch
Jon F. Popkey Genealogy Room
The Jon F. Popkey Genealogy Room contains many items of value to the local researcher. Please contact the library if you would like to view these items in person, or if you would like for us to browse through a particular collection for you.
Our collection also includes both circulating and non-circulating books. Topics cover specialty areas of research such as: geographical, cemetery research, courthouse research, computer resources, naturalization records, vital records, Family History Guides by the Church of Latter Day Saints (LDS) and much, much more. Periodicals include Ancestry magazine, the New England Historical and Genealogical Register and more.
Special Records in the Genealogy Room
Yearbooks and Alumni Directories in the Jon F
Publications from Niagara area Companies
Genealogy and Local History Files
Genealogy Reference Materials
Area Environmental History
Family Name files
Niagara Men in the Civil War compiled by Richard Reed (Volumes 1-3)
Civil War Veterans, Oakwood Cemetery, Niagara Falls
The Irish in Niagara Falls (scrapbook)
Reports of Elizabeth Howe, International Institute, Niagara Falls, New York, 1919-1920
Record books of the Independent Order of the Odd Fellows (IOOF) Lewiston, New York, as well as various Niagara lodges including: Fort Niagara, Niagara Falls, LaSalle and Wilson (1846-1935).
The Ethnic Communities of the East Side, Niagara Falls, NY
From Niagara County Genealogical Society website:
Saturday May 30, 2015 at 1pm
The Niagara County Genealogical Society hosted the program, “Ethnic Communities of the East Side of Niagara Falls.” According to an informal housing survey conducted by Elsie Vorhees Jones, at least fourteen non-English speaking nationalities resided in the city of Niagara Falls in June of 1919. Michelle Kratts, librarian at the Lewiston Public Library spoke about how these immigrants settled on the East Side in what became known as “Tunnel Town” and through their customs and traditions contributed to the unique and rich cultural history of the city of Niagara Falls. She explored the stories of these people as well as the historical and genealogical records that may be searched to find clues to their origins.
Genealogy Tips for Researching the Ethnic Communities of the East Side
Italian Research
Blog: The Italians of Niagara Falls. Family histories of Niagara Falls’ Italians.
German Research
German Genealogy Sources at the Lewiston Public Library
Common German Words for Genealogy from About
Characters For German Transcriptions
Click below to make images larger.
Becoming a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution
How to Find Your Revolutionary War Ancestors (PowerPoint)
Documenting Recent Generations
Click below to make images larger.
Online Collections
Genealogy and local history blog:
The Lewiston Public Library has a collection, The Early Records of Sacarissa Lodge, Independent Order of Odd Fellows (IOOF), for the NY Heritage website:
Bob & Rita Giannetti Southern Family History Collection
This special collection contains materials pertinent to the researcher with interests in the southern states prior to the Civil War.
Southern Family History Collection
Frieda C. Bourgon Local History Room
The Frieda C. Bourgon Local History Room contains mostly books and histories of value to the local history researcher, including local histories and genealogies, maps, biographical encyclopedias, New York gazetteers, antiquarian Niagara Falls guide books, Clarence O. Lewis articles, various historic Buffalo area newspapers, the archives of the Lewiston Public Library and original copies of the Army’s, Stars and Stripes, London edition, from the 1940’s.
The Frieda C. Bourgon Local History Room is also home to the library’s special database which includes: Niagara Gazette Obituaries (various 1854-present), The People of Lewiston (family database of all Lewiston censuses until 1940), and applications from various Niagara County Independent Order of Odd Fellows (early lodges).
Local area microfilm is also available as well as the New York Times (1854-1995).
Lookup Policy
Staff will be happy to search through onsite materials. Please include complete names, dates, and locations with your requests. You may email requests to Michelle Kratts at lewgen@nioga.org or mail to:
Lewiston Public Library
305 South Eighth Street
Lewiston, New York 14092
Any photocopies made include a $.20 fee per page plus postage.
Gifts and Donations are gratefully accepted!
Helpful Genealogy & Local History Links
Lewiston and Niagara History
Niagara University
Tuscarora Genealogy
Niagara County Genealogy
New York Newspapers
Niagara Area Churches
Cemeteries
Wills