What’s the issue?
The School Committee voted during its March 2 meeting to amend the school calendar. The change is a result on an ongoing effort with parents and the union to streamline the calendar as much as possible, said Superintendent Maryann Perry.
What’s the timeline?
2017/2018 School Year
What were the concerns?
Fractured school weeks due to professional development days being held mid-week and observances of religious holidays.
Parent conferences
Starting school before Labor Day
No school the Friday before Labor Day
What are the changes?
First day for staff will be Aug. 28 -- the traditional opening day event for staffers will be moved to the first full day of professional development in October.
First day for students will be Tuesday, Aug. 29
Kindergarten screening will be moved to the last week in August thus piloting new introduction to kindergarten.
First day for Kindergarten will be Sept. 5.
Professional development half days won’t start until November. The half days are because Wednesday is by contract the long staff meeting day and the half days allow for more time for professional development.
Parent conferences will be shifted to one full day (Dec. 8) with one additional half day and evening conferences (Dec. 13.) The half day of conferences will be held from 1 p.m.- 4 p.m. There will be a break from dinner and teachers will come back for evening conferences from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The high school will have a full day of professional development on Dec. 8. Perry said it will be a pilot year for the new conference schedule and she is hoping for feedback from parents and educators.
According to Perry if 2017/2018 is a quiet year for snow students could get out as early as June 22.
“If we use all five snow days students will get out on June 26 and teachers on June 27,” she said.
The School Committee approved the amended calendar unanimously with committee member Jennifer Schaeffner thanking Perry for “the enormous effort” made in achieving the changes. She said she believes it will make a big difference.
Chairman Meredith Tedford the committee would continue to keep the lines of communication open in regards to the calendar and revisit the changes as needed.