Filters
Oops! Looks like we couldn’t find any results. Why not change some things around or broaden your search? You can also try:
Explore 39 projects
First full album: Miss Alabama
Competing with major labels as an independent artist takes bucks. But with your help, I can get NOTICED, in a BIG WAY. Here's how.
Stereo Dogs! 14-Year Old Teen Rock Band Plan CD Project!
Every time we sit down to rehearse, thoughts of recording a CD excite us! We are ready to do this! It's time, so read on...
Strung Together: Documentary
Be a part of launching a brand-new documentary film about Cigar Box & DIY guitars, their makers, and the musicians that play them.
The Book of Dragons
Beware of Dragons! THE BOOK OF DRAGONS is our all ages graphic novel adaptation of E. Nesbit's classic children's book.
Must Love Breeches
Help fund production costs and get Isabelle to meet her hunky lord! MUST LOVE BREECHES is a time travel romance set to release Sep 2014
Eleanor's First Album: The Canyon
Be a part of making Eleanor's first full-length record a reality! Support on Kickstarter & get a digital copy before anyone else!
Worlds in Peril: Be the Hero you Want to Be!
THE Superhero RPG you've been waiting for! A standalone, modern ruleset to take superhero gaming to a whole new level!
Lisa Mills RECLAIMS I'm Changing, her first studio album
I'M CHANGING, my first studio album, is being remixed by Grammy-award winning Trina Shoemaker with NEW tracks and full promotion!
New curtains for the theatre
Playhouse needs new onstage blinder curtains.
Krantz - Banned by the Catholic Church & now in English!
Krantz, a time traveller stuck in the 16th century, must find a way to survive without changing the future he was sent to save.
Do You Love God More Than Me?
This children's picture book is a playful tool to help families engage in meaningful, honest conversations about Christian faith.
Prancing Elites: High Road to Fame
Society hates us, but the WORLD loves us. Meet the Prancing Elites. Come read our story.
DHS RobotEx: Forging Tomorrow's Engineers
We are Davidson RobotEx, a high school robotics team competing in the BEST Robotics competition held throughout the nation.
A Dog Named Gucci - a film about ending animal abuse - ver4
A documentary feature about animal abuse in the United States, and the laws, or lack thereof, preventing it.
Last Ride for Horsemen: Wild West Steampunk Apocalypse!
A lost town is beset by Apocalyptic Horseman, Famine, in the form of a massive Plowman culling everything & everyONE in his path!
Love Affair - Bringing Burlesque and Mobile Together
A gallery show exploring the intimate and emotional moments of burlesque during live performance
ROADKILL DU JOUR 2 Comic - Carrion-Eating Bikers from Hell!
Cursed biker, duJour, rebuilds his decimated motorcycle gang of swamp misfits to seek vengeance against the evil Mama Houdoo!
Flesh of White Issue 2: Full-Color Black & White Horror!
A hidden village of men and women with albinism are the prey when a Witch Doctor goes on the hunt for the flesh of an albino baby.
ROADKILL DU JOUR: Biker Gangs & Voodoo on the Bayou!
A biker is cursed to ride the bayous alone and consume only roadkill after his family & brothers-in-arms are massacred!
FLESH OF WHITE Comic: Surviving Albinism in Tanzania
When an infant with albinism is selected as a Witch Doctor’s next victim, a mother must sacrifice all she’s known to protect her child.