This story is a part of Christmas Guide 2021, our list of ideas, by topic, by recipient and by price, to help you find the perfect gift.
The goal Black Friday the discount bonanza lasts all week and the retailer has been offering some delicious treats for 2021. Prices have been reduced to everything from 4K TV for kitchen gadgets, phones and smartwatches, including one of the lowest prices ever on it Apple Watch SE. This sale expires on Saturday, November 27, but we have a sneaking suspicion (based on many years of experience) that it will be extended. Target has not confirmed its Cyber Monday deals, but they usually transmit the vast majority of the same Black Friday deals through the holiday weekend.
You can browse all the hundreds of deals that are happening now at Target on their Black Friday website above, but with great sales at other major retailers such as. Amazon, Best buy and Walmart, who has time? Well, we do. We have plowed through page after page to give you the absolute best deals that Target offers right now. Some of these items have limited availability and require you to pick them up in person, so it is important to note that The goal will be closed throughout Thanksgiving Day. Without further ado, these are the best deals happening at Target.
Best Black Friday Deals on Target
Patrick Holland / CNET
The Pixel 6 is the latest model in Google’s line of phones that boasts a 6.4-inch smooth screen, impressive 50mp camera and Google’s first ever Tensor processor.
KitchenAid extra accessories available to help you get even more out of this mixer without sacrificing more table space.
Like other retailers, Target does not offer a direct discount on Oculus Quest 2, but you will receive a $ 50 gift card that can be used for a future purchase. Quest 2 rarely gets a discount, and while you technically still pay full price for the device itself, the gift card is something you will not want to miss.
Asus casual media consumption.
Vanessa Hand Orellana / CNET
Amazon
This 2021 model of Fire HD 10 Plus is Amazon’s most advanced tablet to date. It has 4GB of RAM (twice as much as the previous generation) and a stunning 1080p 10.1-inch screen. And with a 42% discount, this is the absolute lowest price we have seen.
It is also priced at Best Buy and Amazon.
PowerXL
Airfryers have been in the spotlight lately, and for good reason. They can make boasts an ultra-high-definition picture with high dynamic range and instant access to hundreds of streaming services right out of the box. The TV was featured as part of Target’s wave of early deals, and has just lost another $ 20.
Nintendo
Both the Mario and Luigi sets will be on sale for $ 60, which is the best price we have seen to date. This set lets you use your Switch to control a real Mario Kart race by setting the course up on your floor and watching it come to life on your augmented reality screen.
SodaStream
SodaStream Terra was presented as part of Target’s early offering, but as part of its main event, it has lost an additional $ 10, bringing it to its lowest price to date.
Hoover
This upright vacuum cleaner is designed for both hardwood and carpets and has a 25 foot cord that can be retracted at the touch of a button.
Good early deals are still available
Like most major retailers, Target has been rolling out Black Friday deals all month. While its large sales may have added lots of great new items, there are plenty of impressive discounts from its previous waves that are still available.
Keurig
This Keurig is for iced coffee lovers out there. If you like the versatility of having one machine to do it all in terms of drinking, this is for you.
Oral B
This electric toothbrush offer comes with a replacement head and a travel case. It also has “smart modes” for brushing: Daily cleaning, bleaching, gum care, sensitive and intense interactive screen for real-time coaching. You can also track your brushing habits when connecting to the Oral-B app.
It is compatible with smart devices like TVs, thermostats and lights, which means you can control your home using Google with just your voice. The built-in Google Assistant can also play your favorite music or answer questions about the weather and news. All you have to do is say “Hey Google”. Note: Best Buy has matched the price with this deal.
TCL
This 4K TV is a solid effort, making this a good bargain for the quality.