DRCNet Response to the
Drug Enforcement Administration
The CSA places all substances which were in some manner regulated under existing
federal law into one of five schedules. This placement).
Proceedings to add, delete, or change the schedule of a drug or other substance may be
initiated by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS), or by petition from any interested party: agency also may begin an investigation of a drug at any time based upon information
received from law enforcement laboratories, state and local law enforcement and regulatory
agencies, or other sources of information.
Once the DEA has collected the necessary data, the Administrator of the DEA, by
authority of the Attorney General, requests from HHS a scientific and medical evaluation
and recommendation as to whether the drug or other substance should be controlled or
removed from control. This request is sent to the Assistant Secretary of Health of HHS.
HHS solicits information from the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA),
evaluationsand recommendations from the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and on occasion
from the scientific and medical community at large. The Assistant Secretary, by authority
of the Secretary, compiles information, transmits back to the DEA a medical and scientific
evaluation regarding the drug or other substance, a recommendation as to whether the drug
should be controlled, and in what schedule it should be placed.
The medical and scientific evaluations are binding on the DEA with respect to
scientific and medical matters. The recommendation on scheduling is binding only to the
extent that if HHS recommends that substance not be controlled, the DEA may not control
the substance.
Once the DEA has received the scientific and medical evaluation from HHS, the
Administrator will evaluate all available data and make a final decision whether to
propose that a drug or other substance should be controlled and into which schedule it
should be placed.
The threshold issue is whether the drug or other substance has potential for abuse. If
a drug does not have a potential for abuse, it cannot be controlled. Although the term
"potential for abuse" is not defined in CSA, there is much discussion of the
term in the legislative history of the Act. The following items are indicators that a drug
or other substance has a potential for abuse:
In determining into which schedule a drug or other substance should be placed, or
whether a substance should be decontrolled or rescheduled, certain factors are required to
be considered. Specific findings are not required for each factor. These factors are
listed in Section 201 (c), [21 U.S.C. 811 (c)], of the CSA and are as follows:
After considering the above listed factors, the Administrator must make specific
findings concerning the drug or other substance. This will determine into which schedule
the drug or other substance will be placed. These schedules are established by the CSA.
When the Administrator of DEA has determined that a drug or other substance should be
controlled, decontrolled, or rescheduled, a proposal to take action is published in the
Federal Register. The proposal invites all interested persons to file comments with the
DEA. Affected parties may also request a hearing with the DEA. If no hearing is requested,
the DEA will evaluate all comments received and publish a final order in the Federal
Register, controlling the drug as proposed or with modifications based upon the written
comments filed. This order will set the effective dates for imposing the various
requirements imposed under the CSA.
If a hearing is requested, the DEA will enter into discussions with the party or
parties requesting a hearing in an attempt to narrow the issue for litigation. If
necessary, a hearing will then be held before an Administrative Law Judge. The judge will
take evidence on factual issues and hear arguments on legal questions regarding the
control of the drug. Depending on the scope and complexity of the issues, the hearing may
be brief or quite extensive. The Administrative Law Judge, at the close of the hearing,
prepares findings of fact and conclusions of law and a recommended decision which is
submitted to the Administrator of DEA. The Administrator will review these documents, as
well as the underlying material, and prepare his/her own findings of fact and conclusions
of law (which may or may not be the same as those drafted by the Administrative Law
Judge). The Administrator then publishes a final order in the Federal Register either
scheduling the drug or other substance or declining to do so.
Once the final order is published in the Federal Register, interested parties have 30
days to appeal to a U.S. Court of Appeals to challenge the order. Findings of fact by the
Administrator are deemed conclusive if supported by "substantial evidence." The
order imposing controls is not stayed during the appeal, however, unless so ordered by the
Court.
Travel back to the DRCNet Response to the DEA Home Page
Travel back to the List of DEA Publications
Travel back to the Drugs of Abuse Table of
Contents
Travel back to the Drugs of Abuse Controlled
Substances Act Chapter