Putneymead Group Medical Practice266 Upper Richmond RoadPutney, SW15 6TQTel: 020 8788 0686
**Please ensure we have an up-to-date contact information (home no, mobile no, email address etc.) at the time of booking to avoid any cases of miscommunication.
Up to 4 weeks in advance:
You can book appointments up to 4 weeks in advance as long as the sessions have been added to our system if you need to see a particular GP who has been involved with your care. Please explain this to reception when booking.
Please call us and cancel your appointment if you cannot attend. This will allow someone else to book the appoinment instead.
Routine and same day appointments
We have a number of advance-bookable appointments which can be booked at any time, so long as there are some slots available. We also have same-day appointments which are only bookable from 08:00am onwards on the same day. Therefore if all of the advance-bookable slots have been taken up for the next few days, there will still be some same-day appointments for you to book if you call up on the day. Alternatively, if you are registered for online booking, you can view the same GP appointment slots as our staff, 24/7, 365 (and 366 on leap years).
If there are absolutely no face-to-face appointments left for the entire day, you will still have the option to speak to a GP on the same day for advice. Please ask our reception team for a telephone appointment (this is with the Duty Doctor, assigned on a rota system), who will call you back within a certain time window and discuss your concerns. If the Duty Doctor speaks with you and decides that the matter cannot be dealt with over the phone, they can still make arrangements for you to be seen that day.
What are routine telephone appointments useful for?
Routine telephone consultations may be particularly useful if you are busy or work far away but need simple clinical advice or a follow-up with a particular doctor.
You may ask to see or speak to a specific doctor but if they are not in, you may be asked to leave a message with reception or book a telephone consultation with that doctor on the day when they are back.
You can book a nurse appointment for minor illnesses and procedures e.g. cervical smear tests, dressings, stitch removal, ear syringing, family planning advice, general health & weight loss advice, child immunisations, travel vaccinations and urine sample testing.
You can book a GP appointment for other medical issues that you are not sure about and need help with.
Our reception team are not clinically trained, but in certain circumstances they may be able to offer advice whether you should see a GP or a nurse.
We offer home visits for patients who are genuinely housebound because of illness or disability.
Please try to telephone reception before 10:30am if you think you may require a home visit. We will take your details and ask a doctor to get in touch over the phone initially.
A doctor will phone you back to discuss the matter on the same day. We find that often problems can be safely managed with telephone advice, or it is much more appropriate to manage incidents by a arranging a district nurse visit or a hospital attendance rather than a home visit.
Please remember that multiple patients can be seen at the practice in the time that it takes to make a single home visit. This is why we fully explore all alternatives before confirming whether a visit will take place or not. We also have better facilities on-site for examining and treating patients.
Please click on the links below:
Copyright 2006 - 2019 My Surgery Website | Privacy & Usage | Edit | Staff Home | Site Map | Accessibility | Site T&C's | Service T&C's