Did you know that back in the day, whenever publishers wanted to do something that had anything to do with the occult or horror genres, they'd turn the main protagonists/antagonists into a buxom babe type, take any of the multiple colloquialisms for the devil's name and add the letter 'A' at the end of them? Like these two images for example - Marvel's 'Satanna' and Ediperiodici's 'Lucifera'. I mean, seriously - had they run out of things to call the villainesses or was it just simpler to make their names and purpose *that* on the nose? I'm betting that wasn't the point at all. Based on the referrence material I got for these two, it was all about the T&A and less about being 'Satan's Daughter'. What's the difference between the two, you ask? Well...one's published by Marvel and the other's...not.
And here's what Wikipedia has on Luc.
On the surface world she seems to inhabit a mythical and very violent Europe from the Middle Ages - populated by wenches, knights and three-headed dragon dogs.
'Dragon-dogs', it says. The three-headed variety, no less. Very interesting, eh? What? You're too busy looking at blocked-out boobs to worry about the trivial facts about this now-defunct character? Too mesmerized by overtly sexual and erotic characters obviously aimed at the misguided hormones of young boys? Guess what? You're their target audience! Congrats, Mr. Hairy Palms!
13 comments:
amazing work line. Simple and cool!Very nice!
Alright, I admit it. I've spent the better part of the day on this blog and all I can say is... you got a brand spankin' new fan right here!!
-Tony
Nice job on Satana- I always liked that character. Wish Warren Ellis had gotten the chance to write her like he was supposed to several years ago...
hahahahha! wow, such a very intriguing blog on what would otherwise be just some awesome (yet erotic) pin-up art....bravo!
These con pieces are just getting better and better! You are awesome sir!
thats hot! very clean work.
Your line is is is... incredible. I LOVE your characters. Great work!
Even with a single figure no background piece like Satana, your composition and balance are amazing.
As for Lucifera, even with the black bar, that is one sexy piece, especially the way she is suggestively stradeling that finger.
HEY! I REPRESENT THAT!
OH MY GOD (O MIO DIO!!!) LUCIFERA!!!!!!!!!!!!!! OK, FROM NOW ON, YOU'RE MY FAVOURITE ARTIST IN THE WORLD!!!!!
Oh look, it's Lady Death and Vampirella... with wierd new names?
Looking at this, I can't help but wonder what a hyper-sexual "Bad Girl" Ladytron comic would look like.
Wonderful art... strong... Eric, what was the price of these commissions?
Heh. I once had a teacher called Lucifer. She was a wonderful, sweet person who ate live worms and lived in a house with her family and some human skulls.
But really, she was great.
Wonderful work as always!