Queen Cosmetics say: Sensitive Skin Oil is a special blend of gentle oils which are known to moisturise, soften and soothe sensitive skin. It can be used as an intensive moisturiser, as a body lotion after bathing or showering or as an after-sun (perfect for maintaining a safely-acquired tan!). It makes an ideal massage oil for the face or the body. It is also a fabulous bath oil. Just add a few drops to running water for a luxurious soak. This product is preservative-free, hypo-allergenic and perfume-free.
I say: Having previously tried a skin oil, I was more than happy to give this one a go as it's aimed at sensitive skin. Currently, I'm using Sensitive Skin Oil as a body lotion after showering. I put plenty on and massage it in then I allow it sink in for a while before doing anything else. It leaves my skin hydrated and silky smooth, and it really has helped me through the dreary winter that can often leave skin looking less than its best.
Application
Queen Cosmetics say: As a moisturiser, body lotion or massage oil, put a few drops at at time into the palm of your hand and apply in gentle strokes. Allow time for your skin to absorb the oil before dressing.
I say: Sensitive Skin Oil is really simple to apply. I usually apply it as directed, in the palm of my hand and massage it into my skin. It feels lovely and my skin is super soft afterwards. It's not a scented oil unlike the Weleda oil that came in a Glossybox a few months back, so you can't smell anything obvious. However, I did give it a sniff and it reminds me of vegetable oil. Not my cup of tea but if you don't stick your nose in it, you won't notice it!
Price: £17.65 or £3.75 for a sample size
Size: 250ml (full sized)
Available from: Queen Cosmetics
Ratings
Product: 9/10
Price: 8/10
Packaging: 7/10
Overall: 8/10
Purchase: Maybe
♥ ♥ ♥
Have you tried a skin oil as opposed to a moisturiser? What did you think? Any recommendations for me?
To give you a heads up, if you fancied ordering from Queen Cosmetics, they're celebrating 85 years in the industry this year, and to celebrate, they're giving away a free skin care gift with all website orders worth £10 and over, throughout 2012!
To give you a heads up, if you fancied ordering from Queen Cosmetics, they're celebrating 85 years in the industry this year, and to celebrate, they're giving away a free skin care gift with all website orders worth £10 and over, throughout 2012!
*PR Sample - read my disclaimer
This sounds really nice xx
If you try it, let me know how you get on with it xx