Denver Broncos fans and NFL fans alike realized that signing Peyton Manning as quarterback was a game changer for the Broncos. While Manning led the Broncos to the playoffs last season, he is creating success for the team off of the field as well. Notably, Manning is helping to drive ticket sales for the Broncos’ road games in a manner that is unprecedented for the team.
Recently, online secondary ticket broker Vivid Seats compiled data about which NFL teams are the best and worst road draws of the 2013 NFL season, meaning, which teams are able to draw the highest ticket prices for their road games. What Vivid Seats found, was when the Denver Broncos play on the road, their presence increases the home team’s ticket prices on the secondary market by 53.7 percent. This percentage makes the Broncos the best road draw of any NFL team this season.
The Broncos’ number-one positioning is new territory for the team. Generally, the teams seeing the highest road draws are the Cowboys, 49ers, Patriots and Packers. These teams have national fan bases, significant histories and several play in larger television markets than the Denver Broncos. This year, though, those four teams fall in line behind the Broncos in terms of their road draws, with the Cowboys coming in second with a 47.3 percent increase.
What, then, is to credit for the new attraction to watching the Denver Broncos on the road? It’s simple: Peyton Manning.
The game that arguably sent the Broncos’ road draw ticket prices this season over the top, is the Broncos’ road game against the Indianapolis Colts. This game will mark the first time since signing with the Broncos that Peyton Manning will return to play against his former team. According to the data obtained by Vivid Seats, Colts fans are willing to pay on average 175 percent more for tickets for the Colts’ game against the Broncos than other home Colts games. On August 7, that amounted on average to $389 on Vivid Seats’ website. The lowest price for a ticket for the Broncos versus Colts game on the Vivid Seats’ website on September 5, the first day of the NFL regular season, was $159. The highest priced ticket was $2,400. Tickets on other secondary ticket websites are similarly priced. On September 5, StubHub offered tickets to the game for prices ranging from $201.99 to $12,872.00.
If you were to remove the Broncos’ road game against the Colts, in terms of road game draws this season, the Broncos would fall to fifth in the NFL, behind the Cowboys, 49ers, Patriots and Packers. “That Colts game is out of control. It falls in line with the powerhouses and big franchises,” said Vivid Seats’ president, Eric Vassilatos.
The question, then, is can one player’s presence on a roster have that great of an impact on road game ticket prices? The answer, is yes. Other factors, like a team’s win-loss record, arguably play a role in the team’s road game ticket prices. Yet, when you consider the data on this, it becomes apparent that the role might not be as big as one would expect. Take for instance, the Baltimore Ravens, who won the Super Bowl last season. In terms of road game draw, Vivid Seats’ study ranks them at 9th. The Atlanta Falcons, whose 2012 record mirrored the Broncos’, ranked 7th in Vivid Seats’ study. “There is some correlation to last year’s record when it comes to road game draws, but they aren’t tremendously weighted on a team’s record. The Ravens only commended a nine-percent increase from last year and they were Super Bowl champions,” Vassilatos explained.
Thus, while other factors, like a team’s win-loss record, may play a role, based on the Broncos’ surge this season, it appears that the NFL is more of a player-driven league than many would believe. The fact of the matter is, that when it comes to road games, a star player’s presence on a roster can drive up ticket prices. Prior to Manning’s arrival in Denver, the Broncos had a negative (-8.1 percent) impact on road game ticket prices. When Manning began playing in Denver in 2012, that number jumped to 15.8 percent. That number nearly quadrupled this season based in part on Manning’s return game in Indianapolis and a Manning Bowl of sorts, when the Broncos will play Eli Manning’s New York Giants in New York on September 15.
What then, does this signal to NFL teams and the league? First, it signals that contrary to popular belief, the NFL is a player driven league. Next, the big take away is that strategic scheduling based upon some of the most prominent personalities in the league may help boost ticket sales and revenues for teams. Knowledge of both of these factors can benefit teams and the league alike moving forward.